---
description: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hEVLyPwJAZQ
---

# E26: State of Venture Capital, plus fan questions on longevity, decentralization & quantum computing

Date: 03/19/2021

Duration: 1 hours, 17 minutes, 29 seconds

Model: Whisper-small

Sax is there something you object to here the poker one and net worth no I mean it's fine I don't give a shit about longevity or quantum computing, but here's the good news David. It's not all about you. There's four people You could have two people who like the topic and then you could just ask them a probing. That's fine. That's fine This is just telling us over I'll do you know Hey everybody. Hey everybody. Welcome to the all in podcast I'm Jason Callicanis and I'm Jason Callicanis and with us today again The queen of quinoa David Friedberg sands his dog in the background.

Sorry for those of you who love his dog He's on a walk. He'll be back in like 10. He'll be back and he'll be in the seat and The Rain Man himself David sacks ultra focused on sass and marketplace startups and Red Pills straight up from Honduras to Cuba and then through Miami making the red pills making their way to California and Finally daddy's back The SPAC master himself Bestie see The dictator is back bank account replenished He'll be rebellionized firing on all cylinders. Oh, it's so So, you know live by the SPAC die by the SPAC That's what they always say in this business, but you know what? We have been Absolutely Inundated with I kid you not hundreds of questions from you our loyal audience And when this thing is over we are going on world tour.

We'll see you in Vegas. We'll see you in at the Royal Albert Hall in London and Miami all cities are on the Agenda let's take our first question from you the audience to what extent are you guys? Wait, wait, how's everyone doing? I thought we'd get into the questions, but I mean look at this guy. He got his ass kicked and he's back I'm doing really really great. What about the rest of you guys? You guys played poker this week We played poker. It was a bloodbath. Well, although, you know, it's so funny because like we played I played Uh, a very big game the week before and then we step into our game Which is like I think still quite big but I could not rub two cards together to make a hand and I Uh, I went off like a rocket ship I just lost it somewhere along the way And just despite that despite that Every time I Chumath and I were heads up in a hand.

He just smashed absolutely smashed me And then I was like, you know what? I'm not going to be bullied anymore And then I stand up to him and he's got the nuts each time Uh, I was down. I did take out. I did run you over. I mean the number of just complete bluffs. I ran on you Oh He's totally got my number tonight bluff after bluff after bluff after bluff And then I showed him the nuts five times in a row. It was beautiful. So I'm stuck a model y And I come back and I win a used Prius.

I'm just leaving it at that I lost the midsize home in phoenix, arizona I think you lost a bet. Okay. Don't cancel us. Uh, please uh, sacks. Did you play? I wasn't there in that game, but I played in uh, la game a couple of nights ago and uh, any celebrities? Yeah, me me sacks and oh god You guys don't count as your podcasters. No, there was one. There was one unnamed celebrity. We can't say What an actor? No, we can't say but we all won. Well, just give us a genre I mean a politician athlete an athlete.

Okay. Yeah, I won in in that game But I lost uh, I lost in a different game this past week and it wasn't pretty. Yeah, wait sacks. It's actually are you in What game you playing? Yeah, I think he may be playing actually. I mean beep that out. Would you nick? Beep it out, but we can all laugh at him for being so precious. Oh, you I'm sorry LPs think you're supposed to be in San Francisco investing in startups. No, no They know I go wherever the deals are. Oh really, Miami? What'd you get a deal? Would you get a deal on some croquettes and a Cuban sandwich? Two for one When do you think you'll make an investment in a Miami based company? You think that'll happen anytime it's happened already That doesn't happen.

Are you in the new free? Are you in the new reboy company? I've invested into Miami company I've got like six. Yeah Well, there's some companies that are moving to Miami that I'm already in You know, Tramoth and I are both in pipe, right? And and uh part at least the CEO of the company just moved to Miami So that's two of four two of four besties in pipe. Thanks. By the way, how did you miss that jay cal? They they advertise on your show and you didn't think to try and invest that the lp Beep that we all share wanted everything and he couldn't fit me in and I was like, how about a slice and he's like Is that lp me? No, there's another lp that sax and I share who got their beaks significantly Doused in that one, but I'm just gonna I'm gonna get the kid to give me a 25 basis points in a advisor share So I'm getting a slice no matter what.

Yeah, good. Good luck with that. Good luck with that The train's off the station The train's off the station, dude that that that companies are a couple billion dollars in less than two years of its existence Good luck with that jason. Okay. Well, it's we call it a make and I don't know what you guys are seeing but my god Early stage valuations went bonkers. I had one company that raised That don't run it. I have all kinds of data for you. Okay, right So today we're going to do some audience questions and then we're going to do the state of vc We're running through a deck.

We're running through everything that is changing right now in venture capital and early stage investing And it is changing very quickly. Here's a question from lennard Oh mzix to what extent are you guys interested in longevity? In your opinion, what technologies could help us live longer and healthier lives freedberg? That's got your name on it. Why don't we start with you? um on this one I would point folks to read the book lifespan by david sinclair who's a researcher at harvard and he's done a lot of kind of leading work on um on uh Basically calling aging a disease and life extension.

So the book lifespan highlights I think a lot of his research and findings and paths forward for for improving Longevity and basically, you know comes down to what he defines as kind of an early switch that evolved in evolutionary biology In every cell in every living organism where the cell is either in growth mode or repair mode And the trick is can you get the gene to switch on that puts the cell into repair mode? And if you do that the cell fixes itself and you and the cell lasts longer and the organism lives longer And so they've identified a number of genes that trigger this and a number of compounds that trigger expression of those genes Um, and there's a number of things you can do lifestyle wise to trigger these genes basically to get yourself to live longer So fasting is a good one and then there's a bunch of compounds that you can take that mimic fasting on a cellular level Like uh metformin and rapamycin I'm on metformin.

I think a couple of you guys are on metformin, right? Yeah, and then and then the nad plus supplements Which you can buy you say m n m n? Yeah, n m n n m n and nad plus. Um, so there's two there's two compounds n m n like nancy Mike Nancy And then n r And those you can buy a product called true nitrogen on amazon which which has those compounds and you take about a thousand milligrams a day And anyway, all of the stuff's laid out in his books and it supports a lot of the research that's being done obviously fasting and exercise also trigger this gene expression and and enable kind of measures of longevity To kind of be showing up biologically, but um, I think I think it's an emerging field And there's a lot of deep work going on And as people have highlighted the the process of aging is a biological process that theoretically we can stop and potentially reverse And there's a lot of new work that's being done in stem cell therapy that may kind of elicit some new paths forward here So arguably someone is alive on planet earth today that could live past the age of 200 So it's an exciting field and lots have kind of passed forward I'll uh, I'll tell you for what it's worth my regimen And oh god, here we go thirst trap photo coming in No, uh, so so I I do uh Uh the the following so um, I take uh A statin now it was 10 milligrams now i'm at 20 milligrams Um, I take metformin and all of this I take sort of in a preventative posture Because my cholesterol wasn't super high, but it wasn't super low.

It was like sort of like in the 160 170 180, but now it's sort of like 120 Um, and then metformin I take preventatively as well. I'm not pre diabetic Um, and then a couple of vitamin d and some other stuff But then here are these things that I do that I think could be valuable for some folks listening Uh, there are these places now that exist. They're popping up one company that you can check out is called pre nuvo p.r.e n u v o Um, they're in vancouver. They're in la they're in redwood city.

So mid mid peninsula for those in silicon valley And what you can do is you can get a head to toe uh, mri So, you know, there's no radiation, you know, you could do these things, you know every other week if you wanted to It takes about an hour And what happens is they can basically look through your entire body um, your musculature your organs um From that literally from the tip of your head all the way down to your ankles and they can spot a lot of stuff that may not otherwise Uh, be seen and so, you know, every three or four years to get one of these scans you could see a lesion Um, you could see the beginnings of a tumor.

Um, you know, I did one a few weeks ago touch wood. It was great. Nothing nothing So what does it cost? There's a range of prices And I think those prices will come down the range of prices are from like 1500 to 2500 dollars So it's not expense. It's not cheap. Sorry Um, but here's what they're able to do They're building a corpus of all these images where they're running uh machine learning on it and they're getting better at better at identifying anomalies And so as a result of that they're able to actually take the mri images and they can do fewer and fewer scans To get the equivalent resolution.

So two things will happen. One is the scan time will come down Right, so it was an hour and a half now. It's sort of right under an hour It can probably be as low as 40 minutes, which is relatively tolerable for most people And then the cost will come down into the hundreds of dollars because you'll be able to very rapidly assess Um, so I do that and then the second thing is for anybody with heart disease in their family I really implore you one of my friends actually is flying down from Toronto I'm taking him to my cardiologist in la And there's a thing called heart flow And what heart flow is is a contrast ct Which basically means they inject a dye and then they put you under a ct and they they map out your heart And you can literally see the calcium build up.

You can see the state of your arteries Um, and you know what probably people don't know is when you have a calcium score You know most of us it's zero But when it starts to be non zero it doubles every year and by the time it gets into the thousands You're basically guaranteed to get some form of cardiac issue Um, and so it doesn't seem like anything if your cardiac score is 20 except it goes to 40 80 160 and all of a sudden within five six years. You're really in the red zone for a heart attack or something Um, I've done it twice now.

Um, every five years. I do it. Um, and touch would you know, my my calcium score is still zero Um, but in any event, uh, that's what I do for longevity I kind of preventatively at the cellular level with some drugs and then Just trying to catch cancer and heart disease on the front end Uh, otherwise eat three balanced meals and exercise and sleep a lot sacks. Uh, you obviously don't care about lung jeff Any thoughts here? I mean sacks has looked like he's a thousand years old since he was seven No, he was when he was in 12th grade.

He looked like he was a vice president in the United States. Yeah guys just Just let just let me know when this conversation is over. I've been doing my email Oh, it's so great. All right, we got this. It's the end of my life now. I fucking hate it. You don't you guys like I just lost two years right now. Sacks has got an early spot both on the rocket ship to mars and He's got an inside vip to peter teal's blood boy project And so either way he's getting off the planet or he's gonna refresh his blood or both So he's good All right action bias asks, please debate Decentralization of monetary value Ultimate threat for insiders power erosion.

I interpret this as a as a bitcoin question So, yeah, I think one of the most interesting things happening in the world today is This is what's happening with bitcoin, right? It's and and you're seeing the price go up because a bunch of institutional investors on Wall Street are all getting into it now It's gone from retail to institutional and the narrative basically it's a really profound narrative Which is it's the separation of money and state So if you think about like one of the most important events in human history was the separation of church and state Where we no longer look to the state to determine, you know, what religion everyone's going to be Well, what crypto is introducing is this idea that the government cannot control the money supply I think that's what he's talking about with the decentralization is that you could have a currency That everybody in the world believes in that no government can control.

That's the separation of money and state now This is just really a narrative right now Um, I mean and who knows if it will actually come true But the interesting thing is that if everybody does believe in it, it will come true And so bitcoin's been sort of described as the bubble that never ends because if everyone kind of buys into this bubble It actually comes true. So I think it's very interesting and you're seeing Because bitcoin is kind of perceived as the antidote to inflation and money printing by the government I think you're seeing it take on new urgency now because the government just keeps printing Trillions and trillions of dollars of of new money doesn't this threaten government.

So if government Um doesn't have control over monitoring financial transactions and have control over the accounts in which the financial assets sit Which is effectively the the notion of decentralized anonymized wallets Then um, how does the government secure taxation which is requisite for their ability to fund Well, they're good to fund the state right and so what happens to the state? Well, so there there's an enormous amount of leakage that happens today in assets that actually get financialized But in the gray market and I think the the beautiful thing is on the one hand You know, we become less focused on like the m1 and the m2 money supply like the physical printable Distributable money that we can see and touch And it gets replaced with virtual currencies that are tied to other things I think what the the the the person who wrote the question is asking really is more about DeFi and what's happening sort of like on the ethereum, you know 2.0

erc 20 contracts all that stuff Which is sort of much more next gen I think than bitcoin and I think at some point we should deep dive into it But what I would say freedberg is all the leakage you have today Goes away in a world of DeFi Because you will financialize every single asset possible, you know, you'll financialize your homes You'll financialize your cars your watches your jewelry your art You'll financialize every random thing maybe even your career and how people will trade it absolutely your career And and the thing is by by monetizing it and financializing it you can borrow against it You can trade it you can pull forward value into the future against it But it'll all be tracked and so as long as a government then says listen, we're going to enable it all But there needs to be an off ramp to taxation And that's pretty simple because a physical house exists in the world You can't hide the existence of a physical house, but it's not anonymized right Schmott and so I you know You know, if you want to track it, I mean that's the challenge is if no, I'm saying if it is anonymized then the government Can't track it and the government can't actually these are these are two separate things Some assets will live anonymously and those are the assets that don't need to exist in the real world But I think what this will create is a world where all of these assets that actually really exist in the real world It'll be fine that it exists and that people get taxed on it But it'll be much more legitimate and I think it'll be simpler And so I think people will trade off incremental taxation for incremental monetizability.

I'll give you an example Um, let's use real estate There is no reason why every single piece of land everywhere around the world isn't written into a ledger with Knowledge of who owns it Such that the person that owns it could trade it could borrow against it Could sell it Yeah, fractionalize it fractionalize it even if you can't fractionalize in the real world because your neighbors won't let you set it up into Four lots you could do that online online And so today what will happen is that you know that person has a level of wealth And what they do instead take the united states is they lobby lobby lobby to create all this convoluted real estate tax law To make their life simpler But if you actually unlocked the ability to focus on revenue versus expenses You just wouldn't focus as much on the taxation because you'd say well I can make so much more money If you judge just to you know sort of answer the question here from the reader from the listener I think you can really judge this based upon how much it's being pumped by the people who own it And they are absolutely dogged religious about this.

It's like talking to and You know a person who's you know met Jesus and now everybody has to be a Christian And you can also look at The people who are opposing it. I don't know if you saw Yellen um, and then Christine Lagarde she came out against it Yellen's come out against it India might ban it and then you have obviously china is coming out their digital one So I think it's going to be there's going to be a dogfight here where governments are not going to easily give up Their control of this and there's many ways they can make a bunch of red tape to slow this down and in countries that are authoritarian They cannot write ban it.

Let's take another question here. By the way, there's like three outcomes here Right. I mean you you could either see bitcoin for example, you know being banned and that's going to be ugly Um, and and obviously there would be significant financial loss at this point I mean to sacks's point at some point. There's there's so much asset value tied up in bitcoin It's too big to fail. Sorry. David banned by who? Oh, that's Chinese government. This is what they're trying to do on some of the state, right? And they're trying to make it illegal for citizens to transfer money in and out of the asset class I think I think it's I think it's a bigger threat to countries that want to impose export or currency controls and Export extra restrictions, but but frankly if you're a country that's not afraid of currency movements because you're not trying to do something Oppressive to your people.

I don't think you have that much to fear here I mean, there are other ways of trying to hide assets or hide money besides bitcoin and every transaction Every bitcoin transaction is written into the ledger I think you have to be pretty dumb to try and commit a crime with bitcoin because there's going to be a permanent record In the blockchain forever of that transfer and then there's companies that that provide that do kind of sleuthing and try to you know unravel You think tax evasion in the United States is going to be difficult With bitcoin if I accrue a bunch of value of bitcoin Am I going to be able to evade paying taxes on those gains and convert that bitcoin into physical assets by purchasing it from another bitcoin wallet? holder I mean how realistic is tax evasion going to be? And how much would because that's ultimately what the u.s.

government would mostly well So you would convert cash into bitcoin and then you want to sell your bitcoin at some point you're gonna have to sell it I mean there would be a There'd be a realization of what we're not I'm saying transfer it to a seller of an asset of another asset That's willing to accept bitcoin in receipt and so to anonymize wallets I don't know I mean that that transaction is going to live on the blockchain forever and it's going to live in the books of Whoever the seller is what are they selling you a car a house whatever? I mean that that transit watch.

I mean look if it's a personal item maybe but if we're talking about a substantial asset Like a house or a company or something they're gonna need to the other side of the transaction is going to need to report The realization event so you're gonna have to have two people collude to engage in tax evasion Seems like a really stupid thing to do legally incorporated businesses are going to be mandated to do effectively identity verification Much like we have to do under the Patriot Act with all the the financial totally totally Yeah, ultimately how the compromise arises right? Yeah, I'm not I'm not that worried about I feel like this whole like silk road type Bitcoin will be used illegally Thing is like kind of a old meme about it that I think that the fears are like greatly exaggerated But the thing that jumps out at me about all the critics of bitcoin and I'm not like a pump or whatever But I do I do own some Um is the the thing that like all these like critics don't seem to understand is the technology That's the common denominator whether it's like Howard Marks or Warren Buffett or Charlie Munger or whoever They're they're all like great investors or whatever, but they're not technologists It's a blind spot.

Yeah, it's a blind spot and the thing they don't understand about the technology is that Bitcoin is the first digital asset to ever be created that you can't create infinite copies of right? so think about like a song Or a photo or a video or anything that's digital You've always been able to make an infinite number of copies. Isn't that what the word digital means is that it's infinitely copyable So how do you have digital money that can't just be infinitely copied? But obviously that would destroy the value and that was the genius of bitcoin is that every transaction is written into this Ledger the blockchain is decentralized and nobody over the last decade or so has figured out How to counterfeit bitcoin how to make a duplicate how to double spend bitcoin as long as that remains true Then bitcoin can serve as money if everyone believes in it The day that someone figures out how to counterfeit a bitcoin how to double spend it It's all worthless But a lot of people have been trying over the last 10 years.

They've never figured out how to crack it By the way, that's a great. It's a great transition to the next question. Sorry. I'm not sure up here, but no It's a perfect transition and next up out of ideal says can one of the besties explain the power of quantum computing and how it can change Industries like medical pharmaceuticals any good companies that are leaders in quantum computing Uh, I'll I'll I'll take a cut at this one. So um, and the reason I pointed it out is because a lot of people do talk about quantum computing uh, potentially being a path to cracking The hashing functions in bitcoin mining and potentially overwhelming the network and effectively counterfeiting the the bitcoin ledger um, and so uh, technically A quantum computer is a computer that uses cubits Uh, which is a a storage of a quantum state versus a storage of a binary state, which is uh, A binary a binary digit, which is called a bit in traditional computing Classical computing a one and a zero a one and a zero and a quantum or qubit a quantum state can be a much more dynamic function and so it's a it's a state that is uh, it's very analog and very representative of kind of a much more kind of broader condition than just a one or a zero it could be a one a zero or neither Right, it can have neither state as well about it as a wave function and um And so a qubit can only exist in a in a piece of matter uh, where you can hold the fidelity of a quantum state meaning it can't be disturbed So right now all quantum computing gets disturbed It all has some error prone context to it And so in order to use qubits to do calculations we use what's called quantum error correction on those qubits And so we adjust the the qubits and the output to try and resolve it um a qubit with no Errors is called a logical qubit and the logical qubit has not been built It would require very very very low error rates Um, and there's a bunch of uh, and and there's a bunch of theories around when this is going to happen When are we going to have truly logical qubits? When does the error rate get low enough that these qubits are are truly kind of useful now? There is an estimate that the number of logical qubits needed To crack rsa 2048, which is the big kind of encryption standard Um, which could kind of break the whole cryptocurrency model um It would require about 411 logical qubits.

Um today the largest um The largest quantum computer has about 100 qubits that are very noisy And so it's less than one logical qubit And so we would need somewhere between a hundred thousand and a million qubit computer To be able to have enough quantum Um, supremacy to be able to tackle a project like cracking rsa 2048 And by some estimates and some people have tried to estimate when this would happen And the estimate currently by some researchers is that this there's a less than 5 percent chance this happens before the year 2040 So we're talking somewhere between the year 2040 and the 2060 When we get a a quantum computer that has enough logical qubits to be able to crack a problem like, um, you know rsa 2048 And basically make all crypto fail and between now and then a lot of people are working on quantum Cryptography, which is new methods of encryption that are kind of built for the quantum era and the quantum frontier Now what's more interesting is that over the next hundred next 10 years or so The current super noisy super low fidelity quantum computers can be used to simulate quantum states Which is the condition of atoms and molecules and use that to do better modeling of Physiochemical properties of material that's where the breakthroughs will happen in the next decade So all the hard discrete problems that we kind of theorize about cryptography and other stuff That's decades away This decade we are already going to start to see quantum computers have breakthroughs in how material how atoms and molecules interact with each other For example finding proteins that can do a better job of having an enzymatic reaction In the physical world where we can now potentially pull nitrogen out of the atmosphere to make fertilizer or or drugs or um Or specific protein targets that can go in the human body and have specific functions by modeling What we can't do with traditional computers today modeling the quantum properties of those molecules and how they interact with other molecules And then building really cool predictive models that we can then turn into products And that's going to be chased really hard this decade everyone's going to be going after it Um, and we already have enough compute power.

I don't think that there's any leader in quantum computing today These are all still science experiments. They're all breadboards IBM Google microsoft a bunch of research labs a bunch of startups are all kind of basically doing the same thing with different types of Cupid technology, but they all have very high errors They all have very low cubit computers. And so it's still unresolved who should have come out with something useful Two companies to follow are d wave which was started in 99 So just to give you an idea of how long people have been working on it says 22 year old company I know uh, Steve Jervitson has been backing it for now in its third decade and then Ionic is that the other one? Ion q I think like quantum fact right quantum computing is like fusion Yes, it's like it's like a technical problem that has attracted people who've had more money than common sense And it just basically a way to burn an enormous amount of money over 20 or 30 years And the problem with that is that you start to build in technical craft anything that is still in rnd phase 20 years in needs to get scrapped and rebuilt from scratch because Everything has changed including the people Even the 20 year olds that started are now in their 40s and have kids and just have a completely It's a great point Simat really and so like you got to just scrap these projects and start all over again because The problem is you need somebody completely naive to look at this problem in 2021 and say well, okay How are we actually going to really solve like the coherence problem? I don't know.

How are we going to build a gatorade? I don't know and you have these very Formulay ways that we knew based on what technologies were available in 99 or 2000 To start with and I think that's probably Part of why we've framed the problem as largely sort of this thing of like, okay Maybe there's like a integer factorization thing you can do and it's like I don't know. I'm I'm deeply skeptical Yeah, well the I agree and by the way, this is why so can I just say one last thing? This is why alpha fold beat quantum computers to the solution of protein folding uh And and the reason was they were just like we'll just take a different run at it completely different people a completely different technical framework and modality and a completely different risk profile and age as well a company to keep an eye on in the Fusion space commonwealth fusion systems.

Um, I just bought mum guard. Wait, Zach. What were you gonna say? What I was gonna say is that the main thing I was thinking about while you were giving that dissertation on qubits or god knows what is I would never invest in this that's all I was thinking is I would never invest in this. Yes, you're focused on sass and marketing No, it's exactly what yeah, it's exactly what jama set definitely seven queens and eight kings and five aces yeah, look these are science fair experiments, you know with indefinite timeframes This is basic r&d that should be done at universities These concepts are not ready for commercialization exactly what they said about uh ai and then now it's infected in every company So no, that's not true jason because there was a comment.

They were saying this Ten years no jason couldn't get funded. I completely disagree with you. Deep mind could not get funded in the beginning No, complete completely disagree with you because okay, there was there was a practical commercial revenue generating opportunity for ai and machine learning Literally from the start of computing it just it took several iterations. There's no use case for fusion energy I mean, of course there is no i'm not saying that it's still at the basic r&d stage Basic r&d. I will yeah, I will I'll partially agree with you jason in the sense that I was not investing in ai 10 years ago Because I thought at that stage it was still in the realm of science fiction But we just announced two deals in the last two days two seed deals viable Which is basically an ai voice of the customer it slurps in all of your customer feedback and then gives you answers And then the other one is a copywriting one.

It's a copywriting ai called copy dot ai Which literally writes your site trying to get a slice right now. Yeah, not yeah, we might give you a slice jason stop being so skeptical but I win Yeah, but but here's here's what's changed right is these are seed companies with just a handful of employees They're built on gpt3 So you had this like basic like r&d done it creates this platform called gpt3 It's like aws, right? Yeah, you can now build companies on top of that. So I mean look, you know What I invest in are the commercialization of of of new technology waves Those technology waves happen because of deeper r&d What do you think about vr and ar because there's the same conversation with vr and ar like are these worthy investments or not? I think I think sacks is the point is such a good one because what he's saying is Is what I think has happened over the last century The government the best role the government can provide is to take on that technology risk that large capital intensive technology risk This was the case with the manhattan project and we got nuclear energy out of it.

It was the case with apollo project We have the space industry as a result now and it's what happened with the human genome project and now we have an incredible genomics revolution an arpanet and and that that extensive early stage D risking requires an incredible amount of capital that's very low returning. It doesn't return anything It's what sacks is saying is later is that is the the commercialization where do we have? a heuristic theory a best practice around when something goes from a research project to being commercially viable other signals I mean platform Vacation seems like one that you pointed out David.

Yeah platform and you can use it easily Yeah, I think I think I think you can tell when the amount of capital required to get it off the ground Goes to something reasonable like a few million dollars as opposed to hundreds of millions of dollars Whenever and Jason you've talked about this that any company that's trying to raise hundreds of millions of dollars or you know It has a billion dollar plus like evaluation before shipping a product is presumptively fraud There's still too much r&d involved. I mean look Venture capital is a milestone based investing model.

You take a little bit of seed money You create a prototype you get some proof then you raise a series a you get 10 million You get some customers then you raise 25 million and you scale the company and it's based on milestones It's actually a very efficient way of investing and when somebody wants to skip over all those milestones They say no, we need hundreds of millions of dollars to launch this thing You have to ask why is this is this idea really ready for commercialization? What's chimab's response to that because you've done deep tech investing and you've done I mean virgin galactic would fall into that Or no, yeah So like how do you think about deep tech investing to month and like where where like there's a role for venture capital private market You know dollars Yeah, I've done I've done a lot of deep tech investing and my whole thing was I've always looked at At the point where something is completely de wrist technically and it's about then the exploitation of a market Otherwise, it's exactly what david said.

So I'll give you an example A company called relativity space is now the second most valuable Private spaceflight company after SpaceX. Okay, YC company. I led the series a lot of time ago and I said, okay, this is a big deal. So I'm going to go ahead and look at the whole thing. Um, what were they trying to do? They're they they're their stated goal at the time was we want a 3d print The entire rocket and the entire engine And I said, wow, okay Well, when we did the math and we tried to figure this out and have the same launch capability as SpaceX Well, first we want to basically prove that we can actually get a certain printing capability done because you're talking about these extremely You know energy intensive Extremely technical printers and effectively writing printer drivers, right and to be doing it at a scale where you can hand that off To nasa and they can take that engine literally strap it down with chains called a hold down test Fire the engine and say it works doesn't blow up doesn't blow up And I said to Tim how much does that take and Tim was like I can probably do that on 10 million bucks? I said you're done on 10 million dollars.

Yeah, and so it was 100 million 100 The only person that would have written a hundred million dollar check to de risk that doesn't understand what they're trying to prove at that point in time Because what he was trying to prove was the the ability to use the printer He wasn't saying I'm trying to build a next generation rocket motor, right? So similarly with virgin, you know virgin got to a point where it's like it had flown demonstrably in the air So what did it prove? It proved the flight profile worked it proved the engine worked it proved all the navigational Componentry work and it proved the safety envelope work, which means that it could basically act as a glider under all kinds of boundary conditions That's an enormous amount of technical progress and then at that point there I'm willing to invest billions of dollars And so to David's point you have to have a new model early too like that's one of the things about being an entrepreneur is figuring out how you stay alive While you answer these questions and you came up with a brilliant one or whoever was doing virgin galactic, which is People will overpay.

No, but virgin was a four year process where Richard Branson to his credit did exactly what David said Here's 10 million dollars get to milestone one. Here's 25 million dollars get to milestone two He did the exact venture capital model. It's just that he did it by himself I think what David is saying, which I agree with is you should never short circuit that and say here's 500 million dollars Pre series a just go with that. Sure. I mean magic leap You'll be working at something for 20 years with nothing to fucking show for it as infusion as in quantum computer All right, you end up with like you end up with a magic leap or Theranos Theranos or even Theranos was a famous It looks like it's a fraud, but magically it just looks like it's technically incompetent Or it's too hard of a technical problem to solve in the amount of time and the amount right technical incompetence Well, I don't know if it's incompetence.

It might be it might be a 20 year problem as opposed to a five No, but why are you taking this emotionally? Technical incompetence is the opposite of technical competence competence means you can do it Technical incompetence. Okay. I thought you were saying that that group of people is incompetent I'm saying the word technical the window by the word incompetence technical incompetence Okay, when you're saying it, I think you're describing the person not the problem It could have been too hard to lift for them. So, you know, okay Well, the last question is about access to private equity, but let's just go into this deck here Now one of the things we wanted to talk to today at your mouth had a good idea Venture capital is changing rapidly Um, the last decade has seen more change in venture capital than I would argue the four decades Or five decades that venture capital has existed in other words more change Um, and we're going to go through some of those changes how it affects the entrepreneur how it affects the investor Chamath was nice enough to put a deck together And then I guess Jason will figure out a way to post this into the youtube or something like that Yeah, you know what we'll put in the show notes a link to this google presentation and Nick can pull up the slides when we're talking about them.

I think I think if folks can give us feedback This is kind of a new thing for us. We're trying to experiment which is sort of this is like a half teach in half discussion on something We all wanted to talk about and hopefully you guys get some value from it But tell us if it's not so, uh, I I want to thank Carmen Collins on my team who helped put this together, but let me just uh Go through this state of venture capital. Um So a couple of high level points. There's like some really important trends at play The first is that there really is now underneath a massive change in the players in this game Um founder demographics are changing slowly, but surely we're going to go into that in a second Traditional, uh, VC investors are getting disrupted.

We're going to go that we're going to go into that Um, and then this model which I love of let me know how I can be helpful quote unquote Um, basically eroding, um and seeding ground to what we call solo capitalists And we'll talk about that which is probably the most disruptive trend in venture Second we'll talk about the inflation in the amount of money that's going into these companies which really means more money at higher prices and Why that's good in some ways and actually bad in some other ways this goes back to david's point of You know not being forced to to generate milestones sooner Uh, and then the third is that it's really now a founders market And I think this is really important because you know, you've seen an enormous amount of dilution and lack of control for uh founders and employee teams and companies and I think that there are some really Disruptive new ways that completely usurp traditional venture non dilutive forms of financing.

We'll talk about that So let me just level set for you guys I asked the following question. What are the demographics of the united states and here's what they are in the united states today? 59.7 percent of people are white non hispanic 12 and a half percent are black 5.8 are asian 18.7 percent are hispanic and 2.3 are multi race If you map back to vc founders 77 percent of vc founders are white 1 percent are black 17.7 percent are asian 1.8 percent are hispanic and 2.5 are multi race. So amongst multi race asian and white you either are at or over indexing your representative population and blacks and hispanics This is not anything new but massively underrepresented if you take it from a gender Females have lower representation among founders, but it's growing.

So the us is basically 50 50 male female Female founded companies were 23 percent of all deal activity in 2019. That's that's pretty good Um up from 12 percent in 2010 Although racial diversity is still pretty lacking, which we know and then the young tech bro stereotype is cracking Uh, which is this is incredible 2019 study In the times showed that the average age of a tech founder is David sacks. What do you think it is the average age of a tech founder median or average mean or median average average Well, I saw I saw your deck.

So isn't it something like it was surprisingly 35 40 42. Yeah, no, I'm seeing a lot I think I don't know just to pause here for a moment. What do we think still found a company? You can what do we think is given we had the longevity question earlier and then you have people You know generating wealth and starting companies in their 40s 50s and 60s who then Underrated themselves right until they get to product market fit and then raise money What do we think is the best zone for an entrepreneur in terms of having a great outcome? I've always thought that the look I When I how old was I I was 31 32 when I started social capital Um, I mean, this is a multi billion dollar enterprise.

I feel like I'm reasonably successful at it Um, but I was preparing for the first 13 or 14 years of my professional career. I learned some good things I learned some bad things. I learned Tactics that worked. I learned strategies that didn't so 30s or 40s or well No, no in my in my experience for me and I think it's for personal for everybody I was best positioned to know what to do and at least iterate in my 30s Um, and I think in the absence of an idea that has some network effect or Something that's sort of like supernatural outside of your own control I think the older you are generally probably the better prepared you'll be Yeah, I agree.

I mean I did PayPal when I was still in my 20s, but I wasn't the the founder of the company I was recruited to it at a very early stage. I didn't really start Yammer until well I guess I started the predecessor company genie when I was 34 and then Yammer pivoted into Yammer when I was 35 I mean, absolutely. That's that's like a that's like a good level of preparation. You know, unless you have a spectacular idea for a startup You should probably get some experience first 100% free burglary thoughts there On what's the kill zone best time to launch companies in your mind or investing companies or where founders are mean look Everyone's got their own path.

You know, I mean zuck and surga and larry and Bill Gates they started right out of college without any experience, but um I mean, I worked at I had two jobs Uh in tech before I started my first company in 2006 Yeah And so I had a lot to draw from and that really informed me, but I think everyone's different I mean some people if you have the idea if you have the idea by all means do it in your 20s, you know Absolutely, but I mean by far the the greatest kind of like Measure of whether and when you're kind of prepared for this is your ability to continue learning You know continuous learning to me is one of the greatest predictors of entrepreneurial success And all the guys that have lasted for decades from bezos to Zuck to you know, larry and surga, but you know, they were continuously evolving themselves because they were continuous learners Bill Gates is bill Gates is the penultimate example of this, right? I mean this guy's reinvented himself a thousand times That what you said is so important.

I'm going to change my answer. I think I started social capital When I was actually the most able to get out of my own way and learn continuously. Yeah, yeah You know what one thing I'd add to this is it's so much easier to be a founder now today that I mean look I I remember I joined PayPal in 1999. That was my first startup It was like really hard to get into entrepreneurship in the 1990s, you know, the vcs had tremendous power and control They would routinely replace founder CEOs, you know, everyone had to go to sandhill road to get capital It was hard to even know how to network your way to sandhill road.

It was just much much harder to be a founder It was much harder to raise money. It was hard to know what to do and then I think actually One of the things I really changed things was with blogging emerging in the mid 2000s It led to a proliferation of information Where now, you know, other founders started blogging Investors started blogging and there became a wealth of information out there so you could learn how to do it And then of course you had incubators and so on like YC So there became more of like a playbook for just like how you actually get a company off the ground When I graduated in law school, which was 1998.

I I knew I wanted to get into business and entrepreneurship I really had no idea how to do it and if it wasn't for a phone call from Peter teal I'm not sure I would have gotten into it, you know, but now now everybody knows what to do Can I ask your question then? So let me let me give you a stat and I'll ask a question What do you think that story would be David for somebody that wasn't a white man? So here's the here's the data The percentage of female VC decision makers has grown by more than 2x Uh, what that means is about firms over a billion dollars About a quarter of them have at least two plus female decision makers, but 61 of them have zero And 80 of venture firms still have no black investors How do you correlate or intersect? that idea of ease of starting a company with The pattern recognition of those folks and the inability to sort of maybe map to people with black skin or women I mean, I think that what Silicon Valley and what venture capital represents is opportunity Right and we have to extend that opportunity to as many people as possible I mean, that's really the the key here is we do need to make it as widely available as possible By the way, Chumat, I mean one way to slice things is the percent percentage of Diverse representation within the ranks of venture and private equity But there is a equivalent scaling in the number of venture firms and the amount of venture capital Since you know sacks and you and I and all of us kind of entered the technology industry kind of early 2000 And and the number of firms that exist today that that are kind of micro firms and scaled firms.

I think presents A much larger set of opportunity. You're right. There are still standards And there are still challenges in diversity and kind of having access But there is so much more access than there has ever been And that's really changed the landscape. I mean folks coming out of college can get a million dollars That was kind of unheard of back in 1999 Or or or or or the reality is like there's so many incubators I mean, it's not as if Jason or YC or any of these folks give millions of dollars, right Jason like these checks are still really small So the point is you can build something if you have the skills to build something The the the the gap right now is that there's a lot of people who have ideas about what they want to do But they have no skills and I think what we found in a vibrant market like today I mean, this is the most vibrant I've ever seen it.

There's at least three or four times as many startups to choose from At the earliest stages and what we're seeing is The number of vcs has not grown at that level. It has grown the number of players has grown But not at that level therefore the average quality of a deal has gone up The average quality of a funded deal has gone up But the average quality of a startup has gone down. Does that make sense? Yeah So the ones that get funded are better than ever But the one the average is lower because there's so many doing it and then just the best piece of advice I have is when we talked about continuous learning is if you are not building the product in some way or selling the product in some way Then what are you doing at this startup? Like you either build it or you sell it like It really isn't much more there and a lot of people just have ideas and no ability to execute You really have to be a developer designer ux person marketer or something In terms of getting this product out to the world What what do you guys think about this other trend which I think is really important Which is the atomization of these firms? So, you know, we're moving from a world where people used to care about name the brand Sequoia XL and then now they they named the person Right and they'll probably follow that person wherever they are So what do we think about that? There's a really interesting tweet from Eric Torenberg.

He said Founders don't want to raise money from institutions as much anymore They want to raise money from individuals and then if you marry that with what's happening with angelists and all this other stuff Isn't that the trail of breadcrumbs for how like VC just kind of In some ways just kind of gets blown up the way that it's normally been done I remember as a founder When I started my company 2006 There was a lot of this conversation in as sacks pointed out in the blogger Community blogging community and with like various websites that rated VCs and there was generally a trend in the support network among CEOs Adventure firms Of talking a lot about make sure you pick your partner don't pick the firm And so this I don't know if this is necessarily a new trend Schamoth It's certainly something that I remember being top of mind 15 years ago when I started my first company And so much of it was about make sure you have the right partner because that's who's going to be on your board That's who you're going to spend time with that's who's going to recruit executives with you That's who's going to be helpful in finding your next round of funding for you Um, and I feel like that's that's always been the case, but you're right the brand value of a firm has certainly become less useful Um, and folks have struggled to kind of figure out.

I think a solution here I mean you see what andreason horowitz did they launched in 2009 and really focused on trying to be this kind of Full service provider to startups and I don't know how much that matters as much anymore As much as making sure you've got a great partner from the firm that's helping you with your business I don't know it's actually you're right freeberg. That's a continuing trend What I'll say is the top firms are still as attractive or more attractive to founders The loser in this I believe is the mid tier firm or the lower tier firms that actually None of the partners there are all that great.

The performance is not that great their value add is not that great But when you do get a sequoia or an andreason Uh, and I put craft in this as well When you get one of those all star VC firms to join your board specifically that is the key when they join the board They own over 10 percent You are anointed in a way that is transcendent You will get pounded with inbound from the second tier and third tier firms who want to Triple your valuation and give you 20 million bucks. It happens like clockwork.

In fact, there are a couple of firms like Was it dag the one? Sacks that would always follow on sequoia deals and so there were firms that were built That was their LP pitch dag's LP pitches. We just we will mark up every sequoia deal. Exactly. So I mean one page it was one page So it's like if you can't get into sequoia and you're willing to wait an extra round to invest in dag Well, and then now I think the big trend here is those firms andreason and sequoia are now Full stage where they have the late stage growth.

They have a scout program. They have a seed program They have a series a program So it's not those it's not those guys also. It's just it's all these other big crossover guys that have come down tiger Cotu durable I think that's the biggest trend of the last 15 years chumat and I think it is what has enabled the proliferation of early stage startups and enabled the valuation Increment in the capital that's flowed in the early stage is the is the scale down from the big guys. I just want to kind of Do a quick walk down memory lane because when you guys said you wanted to talk about this I kind of remembered I got my series b term sheet in 2008.

I guess it was and And or 2009 and I had three venture firms andreason was one of them that gave me a term sheet And the interesting thing about at that time with andreason was they gave me a term sheet I was trying to raise 30 million dollars and they said we want to give you 40 million and they up the valuation significantly And and there was a trend I ultimately went with coastal ventures, but there was this trend And that andreason was kind of imparting and I heard about it a lot from other Entrepreneurs was that they were going out and offering more money than the founder was asking for seeking at higher valuations And it was this trend towards saying like go grab the market because the interesting thing about web scale economics and you know web scale businesses is you get so much leverage and you can get extraordinarily rapid growth I mean the rate of growth could be infinite Um, and and the leverage could be infinite and so if you do it if you do it at the right round I think that's but so much of this was and and then obviously that so that was a huge step up And I remember andreason horowitz beginning 2009 kind of started to build a reputation for doing this of kind of You know putting larger checks out and saying go scale And then the the big crazy thing was the crossover guy started coming in and offering bigger checks In kind of this proven stage growth stage kind of funding and then obviously the big step up was soft bank and soft bank with 100 billion dollar vision fund and and and ultimately what exactly did that disrupt freeberg? Just hang on so when all of these things happened Those large chunks of capital became available and the valuation step ups were so significant for these later stage startups That the money flowed down and more money was raised in earlier stage venture that enabled this proliferation of capital and this proliferation of new startups and enablement of startups at the earlier stage Because of all the crossover money that started to come in and the blitz scaling of proposals And lots of money that was being thrown at the later stage that to me felt like the reason All of the earlier stage stuff proliferated was because of the the amount of capital you're a later state You're absolutely right and now 10 years later.

Here's where we are in early Spacks are the next step chumat because like totally I think what you did, you know, we pre 2009 There was 10 billion dollars a year in specs then when you started this in 2009 stepped up to 2019 It's up to 13 billion last year 80 billion was raised in specs this quarter 100 billion in specs and specs are that you cross over investing It's taking, you know, growth stage private equity style risk in the public markets With this proliferation of capital and we're seeing the benefit in the early stage and founders and entrepreneurs are seeing the benefit Because there's so much access to capital on the back end You can take more risk on the early end and you can make more bets And I think you know, I think it's the next step up and we just keep seeing these step ups Yeah, I tend to think that the growth stage is the most troubled and challenged because at the early stage You can get a guy like sacks or jcal on your board and you can grind And I think that that's really important to get to product market fit And at the public stage you can get somebody like me and you know, we can help transact and actually help optimize and run the business for Scale and value but in the middle you have all of these weird dynamics that no longer Maybe not don't make as much sense.

So just to give you a sense of it the average deal size Okay, so the typical round Is up 3x over the last 10 years 3x that that is absolutely anecdotally my experience In late stage investors are doubling and tripling down on these mega deals So that that average round size is up 5x in the last decade Um, the the typical pre money on a growth stage deal in 2010 was 100 pre. This is for the top quartile Uh, and it's now or sorry for this is for the average. It's now this is for a growth stage Yeah, growth stage at 100 pre is now 570 pre Wow Yeah, that's getting crazy.

It's really it's really really getting crazy tiger It says here in the notes tiger global has announced the deal according to pitch book every 48 hours in 2021 That's fabulous. That's fucking fantastic What tiger I think has figured out is there they started as public market investors and worked their way down the stack Right, so they're very familiar with the public market valuations. They're seeing that these SaaS companies are you know We I remember 10 years ago when I was doing Yammer We thought that the best outcome that you could have as a SaaS company was like a 1 to 2 billion dollar exit That's why when microsoft offered us 1.2

billion in 2012 we took it right we're like we could work five more years Maybe get to a 2 billion dollar outcome. Well, now you're seeing what slack just got acquired by sales force for close to 30 billion It's pretty routine to see SaaS companies IPOing it now 10 20 30 billion And up and so the exits are just so much bigger than anybody thought 10 years ago, and we were the optimists by the way, there's a good tweet on this by It was Jay Malik. Basically, he gave some stats. He said That uh, if you're wondering why everyone wants to invest or be a VC today The stats from pitch book provide an answer We had 43 billion in exits in 2010.

We had 290 billion in exits in 2020 So we had about 7x roughly Greater exits over the course of a decade now the average deal size has grown 3x and there's a lot more money going into venture capital But the reason why you're having all this money go in and all these new players is because The outcomes are so much bigger and then he said and I agree with this wouldn't be surprised if he hits 1 trillion by 2030 So we're seeing just that I mean, I remember 20 years ago when I first got into the business You know like Silicon Valley was a small little Concentric circle around Stanford and now it's spread to San Francisco and the entire Bay Area and to other cities And it just keeps getting bigger and bigger It's the digitization of every market, right? I mean every traditional business every traditional industry is being digitized in some way or another And so it's no longer a tech enabler of other industries.

It is the industry itself We know that the the brand really matters in the early stage because they anoint you and they bring so much value in terms of working with You to solve problems. We know with SPACs whoever and IPOs whoever is anointing that really matters, right the sponsor but in the middle is all that cash now move to a Game of who will pay the most for the least rights in other words series B to you know when you get involved Chumat this that just it's such a good point. You're so what you're now teeing up Jason is this next big category, which is if it's undifferentiated capital At some point you're going to go to the logical conclusion, which is I don't want any delusion from this I'm happy to take delusion in the series A when I get, you know craft or sequoia or benchmark I'm happy to take delusion in the IPO because that's sort of the necessary process of You know diversifying the stock ownership getting You know my users and my customers to be able to own the stock etc etc But in the middle Now you have these companies like pipe and clear bank where now all of a sudden you can grow Jason in your bcd rounds And you have zero delusion.

So if you're a founder, you know the best formula is going to be take series A and seed capital from an expert Single you know gp brand person who knows that business category so well Right if you're starting a SaaS company, you should probably get your seed From sacks, you know raise your a from some expert or what let me say differently seed from jcal a from sacks And then go to pipe and clear bank and fund it all based on your recurring revenue growth and then go public via SPAC So just to give you some data that I got from pipe which means you would just to give people an idea But the cap table would look like that you would dilute 10 percent in your your seed round 20 percent in your a now you still have 70 percent of the company and you just sell your Yearly contracts ahead of time to pipe and you're done.

By the way, can I can I tell the story about pipes of pipe? Yeah, it's kind of painful. Thanks for including free burn David David Can I can I give the stat from pipe and then you tell the story? Yeah, go ahead Sorry, you guys are all investors in this company. No, not me and you David. They let us our beaks are dry My beaks my beak is so wet. Can we get a profile of that beak? Let's see. I don't know why Oh my lord It really is hold on Do it one more time and let me compare it to this Okay, it's a beautiful No, I'll tell let me tell let me tell the pipe beak wedding story because Harry Harry the founders told the story He came in to meet with me in my office at craft.

This is pre cove it when people actually met in person Um our principal who's based in LA Michael Tam new new Harry from his previous startup and brought him in I I heard the pitch which is basically to advance the the full value of these contracts It for sass companies and others but it was so obvious, right because if you're a sass company You spend roughly about a year of of revenue On cact a customer acquisition costs But the customer only wants to pay you monthly and so you have this huge negative cash flow cycle So what if you could just take that contract and monetize it? Right away get the full value of the contract advance then you can plow it into the next The next um, you know customer acquisition costs and you don't need to dilute yourself with venture capital I said yes to harry in like 15 minutes.

I think it's the quickest I've ever given a term sheet We invested 2 million in the company at a 12 cap and um We did the deal that day. So within nine months of launch pipe has connected 3500 customers and over a billion plus of arr to investors willing to purchase that revenue Uh, clear bank clear. It's a marketplace. I'd so you know, they're not buying the debt Anybody can go on the marketplace and say I will buy slacks revenue for 91 cents on the dollar But something more speculative they might pay 85. This is a brilliant thing is that they're not they're not providing the lending off their own balance She's supposed to clear bank which does in charge of 6% every six days talking about your book unless you guys share I'm gonna go to Listen Let's go ahead and do my email now.

Yeah, I'm good. Let's do it free bark. Hey free bark Let's launch a bio company together and we'll block out these beaks go work on your life extension We're working on our monetary extension right here Yeah, you need more money. You need more money So so clear bank works with ecommerce companies. So what you do is you stitch in your connections to Shopify and stripe, etc They're able to monitor how well you do and then they'll basically help finance you again non deludively. So clear bank companies captured 55% more growth in 2020 than the prior year.

So even in the midst of cove at these companies did really well They have revenue based financing They've invested a 1.6 billion dollars to date and it turns out that you know, their investor composition Eight times more women funded than traditional VC. By the way, I want to be clear. I was also a series a investor in clear bank I mean, I am such a believer in this middle section of venture disappearing like when you have these growth rounds They're undifferentiated and they shouldn't be dilutive in any way shape or form the founders should figure out How to grow non dilutively the minute that they have some semblance of product market fit So then the dilutive the dilutive points are the bookends Yeah, this was kind of the idea with like indy gogo and some of the go fund meet types or not go fund meet the other Uh things where you could basically pre sell consumer products too, right where you could get funded In a similar way and you could see the same transitioning into kind of hardware businesses And other and other consumer businesses, right? There's an even bigger There's an even bigger trend that happened that I can talk to which is equity crowdfunding CF But I don't want to take you off your deck.

So do you want to keep going on the deck where you want to stop? The only the only last thing I say is that the other big thing as as Friedberg says is like Um, so let me just summarize. So it's kind of like I think where we're all going to is we see The venture capitalist changing the financial stack. Yeah It's going from organizations and these amorphous amorphous financial orgs Down to individuals as that happens. I think what we're all kind of stating is It's incredibly valuable at the earliest stages to align yourself with a person that knows your business or your market Right and that's worth some amount of dilution.

It's almost like getting a quasi co founder, right? So In the seed in the series a but I think so that's one really important point of what's happening in the market The second thing that I think we're all saying is why are we diluting ourselves to grow in these middle rounds? If you don't have to it's unnecessary And there should be really clever ways of non dilutively financing yourself and as as the market becomes more and more Sophisticated there will be more companies beyond piping clear bank to be clear But the point is that every kind of company that has product market fit Should be able to finance themselves non dilutively in the b all the way to the d and the e And then the third thing which is sort of what Friedberg says is this last book end is Then you have sort of the path to going public and this is where the SPAC makes a ton of sense because you have a very certain cost of capital You can now architect a cap table where the founder remains in control where they and the employees are still more than 50% And you pull in the time of the IPO.

Why is that important? Typically today these companies were taking 12 plus years to go public now with SPACs They've come back in and they're closer to seven and eight years The reason is back to that argument of like if you want to be a winner take most outcome The most important thing you need at scale is money And the way that you get money is by opening the kimono on your finances and showing people who have lots of money Why they should give it to you and not something else? And so by going public in years six seven and eight that's where you pull in the billions of dollars so you can dominate what we're seeing is massive competition in the financing of massively competitive startup scenes in other words the entrepreneurial ecosystem has never been this vibrant and I want to point out one thing that the sec has done That has is going to change things dramatically.

I believe when syndicates first came out everybody said they were stupid Nobody would ever do it first one. We ever did famously was calm calm. We put in 328 thousand dollars became worth over 100 million We're on track this year to do five deals a month 60 deals And we'll put 50 million to work this year at the syndicate.com think about that my fund is 44 million That's over three years. So now the syndicate's getting so big Um that's just from the syndicate. Well, exactly. So I'm going to tell my lp is the next time around Let's have a discussion about this.

But anyway, I want to point out what republic.co Happened this week republic.co is equity crowdfunding. This means civilians can invest There used to be a cap on an equity crowdfunding of one million dollars every year And there's a lot of auditing and financial review you have to do and you pay six percent to whoever raised the money, but it's it's There is no sponsor involved in this. So as an investor You don't get me as a lead or chumath as your sponsor or sax on your cap table but You can go on to republic now which has a hundred thousand investors on it and Gumroad which is doing ten million dollars a year just raised five million in one day saw hill who was also running a rolling fund with angelist and He has eight thousand six hundred fifty six investors, which means people are putting in under a thousand dollars each amazing And it's capped at five million now then arlan hamilton who runs backstage capital did a very non traditional I'll say raise.

She's not raising for her fund She sold 10 ownership whereas in the process of selling 10 ownership in her venture capital fund startup studio And at 50 million dollar valuations. She's selling 10 percent of it if you buy shares in that you don't get Carry but you get 10 percent of her carry and management fees forever. So it'd be like buying 10 percent of craft or whatever the point is You the vcs get a boxed out of this and this imagine if air b&b or uber Decided fuck it. We're going to let our drivers buy shares through this And they said we're starting this crowdfunding for five million and they did it every year because you can do the five million every single year So every year you just allow folks who are in your stakeholder pool you email them and then they buy in It's absolutely extraordinary.

Can you explain the arlan thing? So she sorry she sold It's a little complicated if you page down to the future earnings Yes So if you go to the flow of funds and that link I sent for public.co slash backstage She is took all of her different funds and said you can buy 10 percent for five million dollars You own 10 percent of essentially sequoia capital Or ycombin or whatever you want to refer to her You know company as her holding company then every time she gets management fees every time She has distributions from her carry.

She's going to give 10 percent of that to these folks forever I don't know if that's a great idea, but it's a new idea Um, and I don't know if the investors in that are going to get a massive return or they're doing it because they want to support the cause That's that's incredible. My gosh It's so weird. It's so disruptive. It's so disruptive. Wow. It's incredible Well, because it lets anybody really spin up a new venture firm basically because there are some startup costs to spinning up a new venture firm Remember she's been in it.

She's been doing this for 10 years and really has gotten Good for her. I will have to say not a lot of traction. Um, you know from the the classic LPs of the world but now Just like we saw a game stop just like we see with bitcoin just like we see with nfts and robin hood day traders There are new entrants here and I think there's going to be a world where I will be able to fire up a syndicate And say I would like to raise 10 million, but I'm limiting it to $1,000 per person and 10,000 people Invest or I'm limiting it to $500.

So instead of you know going away for the weekend Or going to Vegas and blowing a thousand dollars somebody could say you know what I'll go to Vegas and blow 500 But I'm gonna put 500 in the next startup I see and this is a democratization that could change everything and make America so much more competitive With what we're seeing in china with jack ma disappearing and well look I said this before like like what's what's crazy is like if you talk about like systemic inequality and poverty It's like the government Loves to give poor people casinos Sports betting and lottery tickets.

Yep, but the idea that they could invest $100 into a startup is illegal Even though startups generate 15% of your kager So even if what you did was you generate you invested in the market beta of startups Let's just say that degrades it would still probably be close to 10% We beat the markets. Yeah, you'd be you'd be at the s&p returns, you know over many many years 8% So I mean 25% better It's it's it would be incredible but with by the way 25% better chumath with the outside chance Of hitting a home run a grand slam and and that's why I love this All right, so do we want to wrap here or anybody have any closing thoughts? Well, I just think it's like if you think of like that thing of like all the money flows changing The other thing is like all the people are changing and then what sax said before it's much much easier because the technologies are changing You put these three things in a soup and it just seems like our best days are ahead of us I think it's going to be amazing for entrepreneurship All the answers are out there if you want to start a company all the skills are freely available to you You can learn anything online.

I think the message I really want people to understand is you know You may you may believe that the world is filled with inequality and racism And bad actors and you would be right, but what's also right is that every skill could be learned Capital is available now more than ever and there is a clear path for you If you just stop watching television and learn to be a UX designer a sales executive a marketing or growth executive or A developer you can change the world and change your lot in life and be really fucking rich Don't buy into this victim mentality It's complete utter nonsense that crazy lefties are saying everybody's stupid and nobody can learn And I got a bag of red pills here and I have been pounding them the world is a giant opportunity for all of you Go I think it's time to announce freeberg and I would like to announce that we've started a combination incubator and early stage venture firm we call it punch draft and It's play on the words launch and craft.

I think the punch is the punch is more just Everybody wants to know when we're going to launch our first syndicate. We got to get a deal here. Somebody's got to find a deal with I just I never get the middle of all you guys are doing deals left and right Jason you need to assign somebody to figure this the fuck out because I think there's I have There there are there are there are folks listening to this podcast who have great businesses what we should commit to them is We will help you be the least deluded And we will try to share The beak wedding amongst all the other folks listening to this So if you have a great company and you're thinking of raising capital Come to the one of the four of us and we will hand roll a solution for you.

Yes. Okay. Let's just do it It's like that doesn't have to do a domain hand roll to wet your beak. Okay hand roll hand roll We will hand roll a solution that will allow The four of us plus everybody else in this syndicate to invest And then we will help you non deludively grow your business for as long as possible and then take it public Okay, I am setting up wet your beak.com which is currently redirecting to the all in podcast It's going to be a type form and the type form is going to let you I will dilute your business But the rest of you guys can do it Anyway, go to wetyourbeak.com

and fill out the form tell us a little bit about your business And what and it will go to all four besties in the database. We'll share it wet your beak is the new database I bought the domain wetyourbeak.com from one of the fans. Yes, you just said it now. This is the 10th time you've said it I get it. We get well. I just collectively we own it. I This podcast is rapidly turning into a commercial for I think we have good information. No, this is this is jay cal's attempt to divert and steal my deal flow Yeah, it's talking about we're partners.

You're fucking Oh, we're partners though. We are How did I just bring six seven companies to the other day craft ventures.com do not That's that's a website. That's the website. All right. Yeah, okay Don't email me Give me a break man. Come on man. We're how many deals are we in bag? Atch? All right, listen, we love all of the audience and we love our besties love you Bestie Chimoth. Love you guys Love you free bird. I got you. Love you sexy poo. When are we playing cards? Come on. Let's play cards Okay, let's play Monday.

Let's Monday done done sending the invitation All right, everybody It's another all in podcast if you want to rate and subscribe or do anything like that. Sure. Why not? End shout out young spielberg. Thank you for making all of our great tracks Do a search for young yu ng spielberg in your In Spotify buy his songs like his songs and uh, he's the greatest Uh, if you want series a funding or seed funding david sacks if you want to spack chimoth And if you want to fold some proteins and Cubits yeah, can you want to do some cubits? Get email freeberg somebody told me that the quality of the show he calls it the freeberg index If freeberg talks a lot, it's a great episode when freeberg demurrs and doesn't talk a lot It's a shit episode.

I think we have it say the demurr Demurr it's french for sleep. It's means you went took a nap. You're just so stupid. You're just such a even More more as in more day day as in sleep day more you could say demure. Yeah, he demured Okay, everybody will see you next time on the only podcast. Love you guys We should all just get a room and just have one big huge orgy because they're all It's like this like sexual tension that they just need to release somehow What you're about be what you're be We need to get merges are All You


