---
description: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hNImocKCMvE
---

# E38: Bestie brawl, Robinhood's $70M fine & S-1, Delta variant, next gen candidates & more

Date: 07/02/2021

Duration: 1 hours, 26 minutes, 9 seconds

Model: Whisper-small

Is is Jake out here? I can't see him Blocked I don't know Why do the two fat guys have to ruin everything I mean get your shit together YouTube We have something good don't save it from the show the show started for you Berg you're lost control of red If you'd like to skip the bestie Twitter drama and get right into the episode jump to 20 minutes and 48 seconds Hey everybody, hey everybody, we've got a great show for you today What a treat this is gonna be here at the all in podcast when we cover everything technology business market politics Science and of course the besties emotions and their feelings.

I'm Dave Friedberg the king of canola's Joining me today are the guys that used to be besties first joining us from Berlusconi's boom boom The pie pie bird specs himself to mock Polly hop a boy you To my welcome. You look great today. Thank you and from one of his many houses the sass bully himself David Sex and of course our former moderator and host the one and only the internet famous the Bronx bully Jason Calla canis everybody J Cal welcome you looking great. You look like you're ready to do a little Jabba hook so for those of you joining us today that haven't been following on Twitter I'm sorry.

Chumat did did you get Kermit the frog to host the show? I mean Jesus Christ that opening was the worst most painful thing. I've ever heard it really was not very good. Okay. Well welcome Saxon J Cal not really feeling great. It's a failed experiment already. I thought the opening was good. Good job free bird I think you're doing well. It's a fucking four of ten stop pre judging his performance It just again and by the way erupting already stop interrupting stop interrupting Cal canis so the moderator is moderating and J Cal has to take the My love.

I'm gonna use the dreamers and Block it. I'm gonna mute him. Thank you So gentlemen welcome as we know over the past week. There has been a Twitter feud between Jason and David sacks and I'm gonna give you guys a little bit of this background for those of you who haven't followed online Which I'm assuming is the vast majority of you But there's a Twitter account called all in stats and they publish an analysis showing That J Cal has been talking a lot on our podcast and Sacks, you know kind of quote tweeted and said, you know Here is statistical proof of Jason's piss poor moderation of the all in pod J Cal if you were moderating correctly, you would be fourth place in air time entire time instead of tied for first Your job is to facilitate discussion not dominate it stop interrupting and let the grownups talk J Cal immediately jumps up with a response Maybe you could start your own pod with Peter teal and Keith or boys and have Tucker Carlson moderate Sacks as I know it's rough doing ten years of this week in startups and never getting to number one Then Chimab free bring and I do it effectively on the first date on the first take But this is why you need to stick to your lane and stop talking over us.

Oh my god, so brutal sacks J Cal then responds with a niche podcast about just startups is never gonna be number one It's not for a general audience like all in by design Number two sure trash the guy who is relentlessly supported you for decades because you're obsessed with your stats and forget about the quality of the conversation Then J Cal blocks David sacks on Twitter publicly sacks tells everyone J Cal blocked him and this whole thing Escalates and snowball so the besties have they broken up? Are they gonna get back together as this podcast gonna continue my mom sent me a text this morning Has the pod disintegrated Jason pulled out question mark question mark question mark the drama ensues so gentlemen I Leave it to you sacks with your opening remarks and then J Cal you may respond I'm here to moderate this opening of today's all in pod so we can kind of get past this and hopefully get the besties back together And continue our conversations that I think many people find valuable and are super helpful and useful for us And for our listeners sacks, please well, I mean I can see on Jason's face that he's he's hurt that by my my tweets You know I Maybe he should go first and explain what's so hurtful I mean look the reality is about this show that you know breaking balls is part of it We've been doing it for you know a year and a half and nobody does it more than Jason and then all of a sudden You know he's on the receiving end of a couple of mean tweets And he's like the schoolyard bully who finally gets popped in the nose and goes running to the teacher and he can't stop balling So, you know Where is it that somehow the word piss poor crossed a red line for you after all of the you know? Ball busting you've been doing for the last year that somehow that's out of bounds and now you're gonna block me And potentially end the show in our friendship.

So explain that to me big, baby All right number one I Want to talk about the statistics and my role on my perception of you David is that you got a taste of Fame and celebrity and it's gone to your fucking head and You're out of your ego is out of control You now have stopped doing your job every day and you are obsessed with your statistics and how you're perceived on the pod as Seen by your obsession and your bromance with Henry or Harvey Bell cast or whatever You're sitting there obsessing over what percentage each of us talk None of the other besties are reading all in stats or getting obsessed with Henry Bell castor and how they're perceived on the pod You have taken a championship show Which I pulled together with my decades of experience and team as the point God I am the Chris Paul of Moderating the reason this show is number one is Because I created a super team There are four people on this podcast who bring a lot to the table and You have asked for decades for air cow.

I will not pull out a list But the time that you were gonna get canceled because of And the other time that your company was in the beep because the beep was investigating it You called air cow you called an air cow You can't deny it and nobody Has benefited more for my skills in media than you Are you are you speaking in an accent? He's getting for clumsies controlling it The ball up court and I fucking pass the ball to everybody. I am white chocolate on this team I am the professor. I am Chris Paul.

Okay, and I passed the ball now If you want to be a point guard like me and throw crisp passes that make the audience laugh and make them cheer and Bring down the whole goddamn stadium. Well, sometimes I'm gonna do a no look pass It's gonna hitch in the back of the head or it's gonna bounce off You can't fucking cry about it constantly David and if you're looking at the minutes I Have to read the story and prep the story so I can put it in your lap Which I love to do I love my role here and You're taking my minicount, which is at least two thirds moderation and you're saying that's indicative me being piss poor Now if it's all a goddamn joke, that's fine, but you're messing with my business My business is podcasting and performing if you got a problem with me as the moderator You have my fucking phone number you can call me But don't go out and start some fight with me and then go start hanging out with Henry Bellcaster when I'm your boy Okay, and then everything with you is about your Call in clubhouse killer and we've got to move the pond to that you're getting out of control David You need to realize we started a podcast that went to number one instantly and be grateful about that and stay the course The end I'm done.

Well, all right good. All right, so can I respond? So first of all J. Cal I agree you put the the super team together for this pod. You're an indispensable part of it I'm not questioning that you know, I don't think this should I don't think well let me come to that the adult sock Let me first me. I'm actually saying some positive things about you before I get into my Critique, okay So look you deserve credit for putting this thing together along with with Chimoth It wouldn't be the same without you you do bring an element of entertainment to it Lord knows if it was just freeberg moderating all the time it probably be extremely boring.

So Look, I although we're gonna give him a chance today. So who knows? But rough start and it's not that I was angry or upset or concerned about my airtime or any of that stuff I was frustrated. Okay, because your moderation I have a couple of concerns about her or I guess complaints, okay One is that you do tend to interrupt and I'd say you interrupt you more than the others fall, okay and Specifically, not true. Let's talk about that the issue that the issue where this came up was the Eric Adams issue last pod, okay? So you didn't even go to me this this issue the Eric Adams issue is all about the crime issue You know what the audience doesn't know is that you went to Chimoth like three times Then you moved on and we had to come back said no listen I raised my hand to get back into the conversation.

We edited that part out. You skipped over me completely I don't know how that was good passing. Where was the dish? Okay? Let me okay. Let me explain to you. Can I respond to that? Sure? You've got three people on the team who can score I come down the court. I pass it sometimes there's two open guys You're the guy who was open who didn't get the pass and now you're walking down the court complaining No, this would be like not going to freeberg on a science issue To defend the cops beating up criminals I understand that your wheelhouse now when it comes to that I'll make sure I would it would be it would be a conspicuous I agree with you.

I agree with you. It's an oversight. I can't hit every perfect pass. You're expecting perfection So then it's a miss pass and now you're upset about it. Okay, so then so then I basically say listen I want to talk to this issue. I have three points to make I'm not three point number two before you're interrupting me and taking the ball away the specific reason why I said I have three Points is to telegraph to you. Don't interrupt me bitch. I got three points to make okay What do you do you cut me off in the middle of point two? How is that good moderation? I don't think you do that to Chimoth or even freeberg.

This really is about just really is about Chimoth versus you and my relationship with each I love you both The reason why I brought up the all in stats, okay is not some concern about my airtime, but but to show a little concerned No, because I That they broke down that I was like fourth in the airtime And so the only point about that is why are you giving me the hook when I'm not talking too much if I were talking too much If I were monologuing it'd be a whole different story But you're yanking the microwave for me in the mid sentence before I had a chance to finish and there's and there's one more thing Okay, which is as soon as I bring up any concern with a moderation.

Where do you go? You start calling me Tucker? You know you start labeling me in this way Tucker in the last just like just like A dinner with Tucker and you're proving you're proving my point. Where do you go? Yes, but why I'm trying to keep you show entertaining and keep it moving No part of keeping the show entertaining moving is keeping you guys from monologuing I have to cut you off and make jokes a year and a half ago at the beginning of the pod We had to have the last time we had a sort of session like this It was because you kept trying to paint me as the Trump supporter, which is not my agenda Okay, now you're doing it for Trump now.

You're trying to hang the Tucker label on me Why aren't you saying hey, let's hear from George will it's here from William Buckley? The reason why you're choosing those labels is because you know they are anathema To most people in Silicon Valley and you're trying to stigmatize me with them now that is you're trying to Are you reading from your notes? No, you're reading from your trying to hang that out of the points over my neck, okay? And that is you're trying to anathematize me in the in the view of most people in Silicon Valley You're causing what I'm trying to do you are trying to make a joke But you are causing the audience to pre judge my message of my points before I even had the chance to say I'm trying to do by by attacking trying to make a joke the bogeyman of the left to me Okay The result of that is the audience is gonna pre judge what I have to say and probably a third of the audience will never Want to hear what I have to say because you've pre labeled and pre judge me That is a serious problem and that is fucking with my business that is fucking with my business Is it really more a lot more than me calling out your shitty moderation on one show.

Oh, so now it is shitty moderation Okay, I thought it was great moderation now. We're back to it being shitty moderation. Let me ask you Did you have to talk with you know what you're doing? Have you had dinner with Tucker answer the question? I'm gonna mute both of you now. Okay. I'm in the moderator to mark Do you want to weigh in on these two idiots and talk a little bit about how we can move the show forward and at this point? I'm thinking about V vetoing the publication of the show so we can just have this conversation This was this was so fucking part because this is this was this was this was so stupid Nick edit all this nonsense Oh, I make it 30 seconds and move on Hey guys, this is a really important powerful thing that we accidentally stumbled into I'll make two points.

David does get labeled and I don't think it's fair and Jason does an excellent job of moderating and sometimes I think that Jason does get excited and In getting excited, you know, he's also not just there to moderate He's there to contribute as well and so I think that if you look at the the number of minutes as a guide It's not going to be accurate because he does have two jobs to do whereas the rest of us only have one and David does bring an enormous amount of clarity to what he says in a very fair way and it is unfair to him That he gets basically slathered with here's the crazy guy on the right So I think what I would just say is just let's just tone it the fuck down and calm down Okay, we're at a million fucking people a week We could be a 10 million people a fucking week and we could fucking own The distribution of our ideas to millions and millions of people Let's just stay the course and calm the fuck down.

Well, I agree with all that actually I agree with 100% in agreement. I want to address the labeling issue I want to address the labeling issue. I am joking Nine out of ten times when I talk about Trump because it's hilarious and your relationship with Tucker I think it's hilarious that you're part of the Keith reboy and Teal thing and and I don't think it's damaging for your business at all And I think people are telling me I'm purple viewed we're moving to the center here So I believe that we're doing something noble by bringing all these voices together It's all a big joke and you know what I don't care what you say about me on Twitter I know I'm good at what I do.

There's nothing you could say that can change that. Why's your accent change? I think in general you are good at what you do and I and I and the reason I have two of the top ten tech podcasts go open up your fucking podcast player Don't tell me to get my fucking shoes. I don't try and choose anymore foreign number four and number eight No, but nobody's saying that so I think I think what what David literally what he said that's literally What he's doing right now is showing why I had to tweet which is you won't take a note I can't tell the guy.

Hey, listen, you gotta know for me. It's not gonna happen on Twitter You got my fucking phone number. Well, it doesn't happen in private either. We know that you could fucking call me Oh, really? You're gonna take a note in private. I play chess with you. I've tried we've had this conversation before We had this specific conversation about the Trump thing a year ago We haven't talked about Trump in six months. You're back to all your bad habits Can we just hear it on apology from one to the other and tell the other Absolutely willing to hear sex apology.

Tell him what you appreciate about him and what you like about him. Go ahead Yeah, go fucking Christ. Is this therapy? All right. I unblocked fucking sacks and I'm following him enough. Thank you We move on we move forward. I apologize to each other. All right. Sorry. You tweeted that shit sacks. I'm sorry You come on Susie David apologize to him. Let's just move on Jason tell sacks You're sorry for labeling him and you know, you'll be more conscientious in the future, please. I'm sorry That I brought up your relationship with Tucker and That I labeled you a Trump disciple I Don't even need an apology.

I just want him to recognize who so I'm trying to be the bigger man. Fuck it. I take it back Okay, I unblocked you and you're followed I unblocked you and you're followed that's enough His feelings were hurt by you telling him that his podcast sucks and Yeah, piss poor piss poor. Okay. Look you asked me to have ten of your founders on the podcast in the last two years I counted your team is in the fucking mix trying to get people You've benefited from this relationship as well, so thank you for the I never said I didn't thank you for the president Thank you to you.

All right. We good Look my frustration Over your moderation boiled off into a couple of tweets last week. I did not mean to hurt your feelings I was just trying to give you a note. Okay, if you would take the notes in private I would give you them to you in private. I do think that overall you're a great moderator your contribution to the show is Absolutely necessary and essential never disputed that. I think we should keep doing the show I didn't expect you to block me. Honestly, I didn't expect your feelings to be so hurt by what I said and So yeah, look I apologize for that All I wanted to do is give you a note and I would appreciate if you could try and respect my note not mischaracterized That I think you know what I'm saying, right? I just want the chance to be able to present my views without the audience pre judging them because you know That certain labels will not go over well with our audience.

Okay, it'd be like interesting I'm off as the Michael Milken of Spacks. Okay, there is No, I mean, I'm not saying he is No, I'm saying it would be as if you did that right you understand what you do if you labeled him that way I don't think that is a fair label in fairness I thought the labeling and the joking about you being the token Republican was a meta joke about the fact that Silicon Valley doesn't have too many of you and Teals and Roboids etc. This is small point of what we were trying to say is Silicon Valley's heads up their ass.

I agree So maybe so maybe the problem maybe the problem we've we've identified is all these left leaning people are just sniffing their own balls Basically running to a cliff Shwetting so yeah, a lot of my views like on free speech are the old Center left exactly now you're for universal healthcare. Look at you. I haven't moved the whole world's gone crazy I mean everyone supported free speech until five minutes ago. Okay, that's what I went on Tucker to discuss free market about Education and you were free market about about healthcare now. You're like, I mean we should have healthcare It's I am I am a believer in in markets.

All right, Jason. Let's start go. Let's fucking start the shop three two Hey, everybody. Hey everybody the all in podcast is back besties unblocked with us again the Rain Man himself David Sax and David Freeberg the Queen of Kin Wah and from his Italian hideaway Gallivanting in Italy Chumath, Polyhapitia the dictator big news for besties this week Robin Hood has filed their S1 and paid a fin refine 70 million dollars for outages and misleading Customers multiple days of outages back in March 2020. We talked about here and poor communications around options trading risks Robin Hood's S1 highlighted some extraordinary growth during that period as we discussed on the pod 18 million funded accounts and they're on a two billion dollar run rate five hundred twenty two million dollars in revenue in the first quarter up for X and And monthly active users have more than doubled 8.6

million accounts to 17.7 million Just in the last year revenue was up 300% Any thoughts on Robin Hood's S1? Obviously. I'm an interested party. It's the largest fine ever I think of this type but on the end result is fine. Yeah Yeah, so it should be a black eye for the company But the reality is that they're happy to pay the fine and just move on so they don't have this issue hanging over their heads anymore And now they're gonna be able to IPO at like a 50 60 70 billion dollar valuation And so for them, it's a sort of cost of doing business.

I think there's something a little bit off about that But that's kind of how it works freeberg anything. I mean congrats to you J. Cal Looks like you're gonna do really well with this deal, huh? It will return Roughly this one deal will do three or four times the value of the first fund the launch fund one which was $11 million invest in the seed round or the a or what round did you invest in? I think it was the seed round And so what's your multiple gonna be on a 50 billion dollar market cap, you know? It would be 500x Amazing amazing congrats big boy.

Yeah, it's a rest J. Cal and I'm happy to see that you're really happy for you You're successful finally catching up to your ego and so I think Well actually between this and the composition You know listen, it's a long way to go before we distribute obviously But that first fund I did which came after the scouts my Sequoia scouts Perfo my only advice to Jason is talk talk to a few season GPs like girly Fred Wilson and figure out the right distribution strategy One of the biggest things that I see these folks do is Early stage venture investors thinking that they're public market investors Trying to time the market trying to figure out how to do distributions and it never works Which means do you hold the shares for another year or two? I would distribute them a medium I would distribute them immediately book the win move on Yeah, you know, it's interesting a lot of the top firms that I'm in are holding their shares And I had a firm that had square and they held some number of them until it's 7x and then distributed So I guess technically they get to book that win What are your thoughts on that sacks of when to distribute and how are you doing in your fund? Yeah? I mean, it's a good question.

The reality is that you know, let's say that you're in your four or five or 10 year fund You could hold the shares for another five years And if the shares go up over that five year period, you'll you'll do better So I think the question is on IRR your numbers will look better Well, I mean you're you're compensated on the absolute amount of return that you generate and so it might If you distribute the shares and then if you're in carry and you just hold the shares, you'll realize the same gains You know, you know, it depends what happens to the stock price I guess I guess hold on a second if the stock were to go 10x and you get 20% of those shares If there were 100 shares you had 20 if it 10x you're still getting 20% right shama So it nets out to the same if you hold the shares yourself personally This is why I think that if you're in the business of running a multi fund business I think you're better off generally and I think again if you talk to the best firms out there They typically will not try to guess what's gonna happen in the public markets They distribute and they move on to their next fund And then because you have to remember the IRR's, you know, you go through these rough patches And it decays quickly and all of a sudden something that looks great can start to look not so great And the example of that might be snowflake or something going down after it went public And if you had distributed it you would have booked the win at that high multiple Yeah, and then then you're thinking to yourself.

Wow, I hope it goes back up and then you're like well When do I distribute it's all if these are all not things adventure capitalist should be engaged in They should be there to help build the next the next David versus Goliath I think the the cat argument to that is if you really believe in the company and think you understand it better than the Public Markets do or because you've been on the board and you have information You know if you hold it for another yes, there's gonna be ups and downs But let's say that you plan to hold it for another four or five years Yeah, you'll still get the same 20 25% carry but The point at which that carry will crystallize would be at like a much higher level and so Essentially you're preventing your LPs from selling is what you're doing And so you may get an extra turn of your fun by doing that.

How do we feel as LPs David freeberg? But there's sorry. There's also isn't there like a I'm just trying to pull up the Goldman Sachs report they did in 2019 where they analyzed 4,500 IPOs over a 25 year period and I think that and I could be wrong on this But if I remember some summary of this, I'm trying to find it. So I can't find it right now but that they Basically highlighted that IPOs as an index generally outperform the market over some period of time Whether it's one year or three years and so if you have access to those IPOs shares assume your venture investor You can beat the S&P by 10 15 points Just generally without having any thought about the business itself or the company itself And you know participate in 20% carry on the upside from there or 25% carry the upside from there And so generally the rule of thumb becomes well, you shouldn't distribute right away You should hold is that not kind of a common dogma amongst GPs nowadays? Look at square look at square I mean square had all like most of the appreciation happened in the public markets I think Sequoia held onto their square shares did way way way better because nobody sold effectively for several years and The best firms do this right? I mean like you hear from girly and others that you know, they hold onto these shares for years and You know a good business going public Has a much better chance of performing well as a public company than you know, just tracking the S&P After an IPO regardless of the valuation it exits that well, how do we feel as LPs Chimoth? It your LP is in a lot of terrible.

I'm in 15 terrible you you want your shares I don't know if no offense to any GP out there, but I don't think they're as good of a public market investors I am so give me the shares. I'll manage it myself And get out of the way I I give money to a lot of to your point a lot of GPs because I want private market exposure I don't want them speculating in the public markets for me. I do that for myself And so I would rather just get the shares and make my own decision You know a lot of foundations for example or in the situation where they're there to fund programs So if they have a you know multi hundred million dollar position in a great company And they can't fund a program or the you know a hospital system can't do what they need to do because some GP is speculating in the public markets I think it's insane So give you give it give the LP some money and move on it's not your job Otherwise you should run a generalized fund and both people don't because they can't Generally, how do you guys when you are a large owner in a company that goes public? Or just say the pool of venture investors or owners in a company that goes public and the lockup is expiring You know typically six months after the IPO and you can now distribute your shares your LPs Do those? You know investors take note of or have concern About the impact it might have on the stock price when they're making those distribution decisions typically I think they think about that But a lot of these LPs particularly the nonprofits their forest day one sellers the minute that they get the stock That's my point like as soon as the stock gets distributed everyone selling and the stock takes a hit right and yeah You know what there's something happening.

I mean this is speculation that I don't have so just you know take it as that but my understanding was some investment banks went to The and Schemath might know the background on this went to some of the major LPs in the world I'll leave it at that and said hey you have a position in I don't know this cab company It's going public. It's fully valued or it's very well valued. Would you like to collar your shares? before that and We will take them off your hands And and lock you into a certain price for some percentage of it basically and running the GP's decision making process Of course, there's there's a lot of that that happens.

This is why I'm saying I think the GP is better off If you're in the venture fund business be in the venture fund business do a great job at that Raise funds distribute cash do what you're supposed to do, but please don't try to do some It's kind of like asking, you know the firemen to also operate on you No, I don't want that take me to the hospital and let the doctor do the job. I think it's a very valid perspective I think it's probably the baseline that VC should operate from but I do think there are Exceptions where if the VC has been on a company board for a while and feels like they have they understand the company better than the public markets Especially during the first two years as a public company when the markets can be really choppy and the company's trying to find its level And people don't really understand it.

I think there is an argument for the VC having expertise in that initial public run then they might be doing their LPs a favor by holding but but look I think Chimás point is well taken also Companies are going public earlier So this is going to become a bigger issue because it's an easy decision in year 11 if you were an uber investor an Airbnb investor to say Okay, it's been 11 years. We're gonna give you your shares But if you're in year five and the company goes out so early, you know, you could make an argument Hey, maybe we hold it for two or three years just going back on the previous topic J.

Cal the The Finra news on Robin Hood, right? So Finra just so everyone understands. It's not a government regulator It's private entity. Yeah, it's called a self regulatory organization and these SROs are Basically, they have a board and you know a bunch of people that run them But they're pooled and managed by all the participants the private participants in the markets of Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley and JP Morgan And all the banks they are all part of the Finra SRO and so the way that these SROs are set up is to avoid government regulation and to avoid government Intervention in markets and allows the markets to effectively self regulate themselves in a way that everyone in the market is kind of keeping an eye on Each other and making sure that this is being taken care of and I think one thing to take note of from this fine Is that it telegraphs that Finra and the markets in general the market participants in general may be rather concerned and Rather worried about government intervention in some of these new markets and emerging FinTech practices Because they wanted to say look we put the gauntlet down on Robin Hood.

We made them pay the biggest fine ever We made him pay 70 million dollars stay away We're taking care of it because the concern everyone's had is that AOC and Elizabeth Warren and a bunch of people on Capitol Hill are Waving flags saying we need to step in we need to regulate these companies We need to regulate these practices we need to protect consumers and so this fine really signals that the market is a bit concerned That the government is going to come in and start trying to tell FinTech companies how to practice and how to operate and generally tell all Market company, you know market participants how to operate which is a very scary prospect for them So to me this was really this this was really big news about what it telegraphs the backdoor conversations are you know that are going on Yeah, with market participants right now What you're almost saying is that this is a benefit to Robin Hood to pay the largest fine because it it says to the You know to the politicians look we've already been punished in this You know maximal way you don't need to layer it on top so in a way It's better for Robin Hood that they paid 70 million instead of 10 million.

Yeah, and it's not it's not by the way It's not even for Robin Hood. I think all the market participants JP Morgan Goldman Sachs They all have huge You know tech teams and they all have acquired FinTech companies and they are all trying to go digital and everyone is worried about the government intervening and changing how this business is transforming because as soon as the government gets involved It's going to slow down the transformation It's going to you know make things much more challenging And I think that everyone's trying to keep the government at bay while the great digital transformation of markets is underway And and I think that's like the biggest signal from this this fin refine And there's there's some interesting nuances there that they brought up something like the confetti so when you buy something on Robin Hood it used to explode confetti gamification They're like oh, we're going to take that out and you know if you go to Vegas They've got bells and whistles going off everywhere when you place a bet And so it is a little bit of window dressing I think it's also interesting that you bring up the self regulatory organizations There's two other equivalents for people who are thinking about this the MPA motion picture association which was formed back in 1922 because people had the same fear about movies and And Valentini I think was the the guy who really Changed how movies were perceived in the PG 13 era allowing a lot more violence Terminator those kind of movies and then you had a similar thing happen in the video game industry in Robinhood still have like the lawsuits with like Massachusetts There's like ten other lawsuits class actions, etc about No, no, no, but these are more like with with government entities, right? Like like didn't Massachusetts try to state attorney general.

Yeah, something like that. I think right. Yeah, I don't know but the other one that was very interesting was the ESRB which is the entertainment software ratings board because video games like Mortal Kombat and those and doom were You know had to self regulate right so either you regulate yourself Jason Chamato is asking a question about losses that Robinhood. I know I was trying to deflect Can we move on to the Delta variant because I'm supposed to be hysterically afraid of getting COVID now because I've been vaccinated people keep talking about There's this Delta variant It's spreading and then I'm hearing one set of information which is if you're vaccinated It's not an issue and then other folks are going on TV saying this is gonna be like we're gonna have to put masks back On in California I can't find any data about how many actual cases there are but according to the US CDC 46% of the total US population has been vaccinated now And New York, New Jersey, California all well above 50% some people are in the 60% of adults 70% of adults Florida is still trailing but I can't and people are saying this is gonna become the dominant variant free break How should we look at the Delta variant if you're vaccinated and then how should we look at it in terms of are we gonna go through? Mandatory masks again, which people are starting to signal already in certain Coastal cities.

Yeah, so Trevor Bedford is a great guy to follow on this. He's a epidemiologist virologist who on Twitter on Twitter. Yeah a TRV RB is his Twitter handle and So he's aggregated much of good data. So there was a paper published two days ago out of the UK where they are trying to estimate the You know the reproduction rate of the Delta variant and it looks like it's about 1.3 That means for every person that gets infected with the Delta variant of the SARS CoV 2 virus one point You're not you're talking about that's that's yeah, some people call are not yeah And so it turns out that you know that number is higher than what we saw with the original SARS CoV 2 Which I think is probably closer to 1.1

or so and so you know what that means is this variant is much more infectious Right, it could spread through the air that the proteins could last in oxygen much longer and octograde all these different reasons Why it might be kind of more infectious? And there are some cases of people that have been vaccinated, but this is not the predominance of what we're seeing That have tested positive for having this Delta variant, but are having mild to moderate symptoms There aren't at this point a lot of people There's not a lot of data to indicate that this is actually kind of like a lethal risk or fatal risk to people that have been vaccinated In case in fact that seems to be Not true and one way that that data is kind of demonstrated right now is there was another analysis that was done where they showed What is the reproduction rate of this variant based on what percentage of the population has been vaccinated by state? And they showed that you know for a state that's had maybe 30% of its population vaccinated The are not is closer to 1.35

when 60% of the state is vaccinated the are not is just at one And so there's this you know Uncor, you know negatively correlated kind of relationship between how many people have been vaccinated and how much this variant is transmitting and that makes Intuitive sense right like if people are vaccinated, they're not going to get infected the virus isn't going to hop from person to person to person Now when you do the analysis of what percentage of the US population is unvaccinated And how reproductive this virus is a lot of epidemiologists are saying that the models indicate that we could see up to 10% Of the US population now get hit with this variant And what we don't know is what percentage of people actually had you know, SARS CoV2 in the first run around last year But we are seeing this this variant pop up now The fatality rate doesn't appear to be much higher than what we saw with SARS CoV2 the first time around and And so there's no indication to say like hey, this is gonna be much more lethal So when you combine those factors, it seems like at this point, you know, the death rates in the US are remaining flat And stable while we are gonna see and may expect to see a continuing upsurge Surge up in terms of the number of cases Are we gonna require masks? This goes back to kind of my previous point about I think we've kind of normalized ourselves to masks and shutdowns and lockdowns and all the stuff that we did last year Thinking that it had an effect a recent paper showed that lockdowns had no effect on the reproduction rate in the United States Because at the end of the day what if a government says lockdown or government says put masks on People still have a tendency to do whatever the hell they want to do and at least in the United States That is the case that is not the case likely in Asian countries where we did see an effect of lockdowns and masks But in the United States these these restrictions Obviously had adverse economic effects, but didn't seem to have a strong epidemiological effect Based on a recent paper that I will share in this thing.

So so what are we gonna do? I don't know. I feel like we've normalized masks with normalized lockdown We've normalized these responses But SARS CoV2 is gonna be here forever and it is gonna cycle through variants and that's the concern right there Well, let me make a prediction. I think that what at the end of this thing What I think I have come to the conclusion of is There was a lot of unknowns that got perverted into hysteria and mania by a handful of organizations to basically sequester power and What we realized is that these people were incompetent and they didn't know what they were doing Because you ended up in the same place with all of these different distributions of actions and So now I think when you have this other variant I think there's a growing sensation by a lot of people not just Americans that The CDC the WHO whoever it is is Probably at best guessing and at worst making it up and the ultimate result is there this it's almost as if they liked being drunk with power and So I think the last part of what you said freeberg is what I really agree with which is that this is not going to be tolerated anymore and the reason is because They are also politicizing science and what they're doing is when they don't know They're making poor guesses in the name of science, which is just as bad So, you know, I don't know what's gonna happen with the Delta variant.

Maybe a lot maybe a little but as far as I can tell I think people are tired of uninformed Impacts to their lives and they're not gonna put up with it anymore Sax chances California goes back to lockdowns or some sort of mask mandates Well, well, they are there they're imposing mask mandates indoors in places like LA and you have the teachers unions the the national Education union is now putting down all these conditions on going back to school in the fall So I think you could be in a situation where we do not have they will call it school reopening But we will not have five day a week in person learning and the schools the public schools that have it are gonna have all sorts of insane restrictions and conditions like making kids who really aren't at risk for COVID even even the Delta variant They're gonna force them to wear masks.

They're gonna Enforce this ridiculous social distancing. They're talking about making the kids who aren't vaccinated sit at a separate table like the outcasts I mean, it's insane what they're talking about doing. So why is that insane David not to interrupt you? But I'm just curious for I want you to unpack that Because so look I'm I'm pro vaccine, you know, I think adults should get vaccinated I don't think my kids need to get vaccinated I don't think that is a wise policy to to force kids to get vaccinated They're at very low risk for getting the virus They're very low risk for transmitting the virus if they get it and even if they get it They're at almost no risk for it being harmful or you know to cause serious illness or death And so to impose all these restrictions on kids.

It's like we're living in a time warp, you know Back to last summer. We didn't know as much about the virus. I mean to Chimás point They're imposing all these restrictions which are just I'm Unscientific and it really seems like the real point is to create excuses for the teachers not to have to go back to work And you know, you know a school system is borked when the truancy is on the part of the teachers Not the students the students want to go back the teachers want to be truant It's like they want to be on permanent vacation forever.

It is a really broken system By the way, let me just highlight You know to support The concern that I think people like set like people that sax is kind of speaking to might be having a A research letter was published in the journal of the American Medical Association two days ago Lead researcher with a guy named Harold Walsh and this paper is going viral amongst kind of the You know the the scientific and medical community right now What these guys did is they measured the carbon dioxide content of children's lungs From wearing masks and so they were trying to identify like is this a risk to children to actually be wearing masks Health wise and the results are pretty scary It turns out that you know in in in air in ambient air point Oh seven percent by volume is carbon dioxide when a normal and then they measured kids, you know randomized control Double blind, you know, here's the order up double blind But randomized control is kids that have masks and kids that don't the kids that don't have masks They're carbon dioxide when they exhale is about point two eight percent When you have to wear a surgical mask your carbon dioxide increases to one point three percent and You know when they looked at this in a more detailed way It turns out that it could be as high as three point eight percent And so this starts to reach a medical level that is concerning for doctors that having these kids wear masks for Hours a day could actually be having an adverse health effect because it is increasing the carbon dioxide content of their blood because you know Their lungs aren't strong enough to breathe all this carbon dioxide out it builds up in their body And so there is a now a counterpoint that is being made by scientists and doctors That maybe the benefit of the safety we might get from kids wearing masks and spreading the virus is outweighed by the The cost of their health as a result of wearing these masks and to ask kids to wear masks for eight hours a day or five hours a day For nine months a year We're just now waking up to the fact that there may actually be consequences to this And I'm not making a strong It's like it's like it's like child abuse so we sent our five year old to a summer camp in LA Okay, and the camp is outside and all the the adults are vaccinated Okay, but they're making the kids wear masks and it's no fun You know and they can't play sports the way they need to and we just said the hell with this and we took them out Now what I don't understand is why people aren't laying this at the feet of Gavin Newsom This is a hundred percent his order You know all he has to do is say listen, we don't need these rules anymore.

It's kids It's outside and all the adults are vaccinated. What is the point of this? And you know, and I think we have this recall election now that's been scheduled for mid September You know right now it looks like Newsom's gonna cruise to Winning but if we had a candidate in California who could say listen, we need five day a week in Inst, you know in person schooling in the fall no exceptions all the teachers need to go back to work Or they're gonna need to be looking for new jobs. We're not gonna Caltow and give in to all these unnecessary unscientific restrictions.

Okay, cuz Newsom will not make that guarantee I think they could they could basically steal this thing We don't have anyone standing up saying that and I think the closer we get to the start of school If we don't have that kind of five day a week instruction I think parents are gonna be up enormous about this. I think they will be and I think what we're gonna prove is none of these folks really know what they're talking about and so they will make it up and Someone will have some shred of evidence about something on either side of any topic and all it'll do is obfuscating Confuse and the end of it will be somebody imposing Something on to you that will have a negative impact on your life, but for their benefit in the teachers For their benefit like I don't want to go back.

There's I mean listen. I want to say all teachers don't want to go back to school I know a lot of teachers want to go back to school and teach kids and take the masks off because it's insufferable No, you know, there is a condition you can say the union and separated from teachers exactly Yeah, I don't think it's all teachers. It's some percentage of teachers, but I think we're going to move David freeberg quick Maybe I'm wrong here. We're gonna move to a two class system here if you're vaccinated you get one set of rules And if you're not vaccinated you get another and this is where David I think kids who are over the age of 11 or 12 who do get vaccinated They shouldn't have to wear a mask at school, but then well, sorry, can I just say something? This is what the insanity of this thing is it's like, okay, we're gonna throw around again We're probably gonna use the word equity When we make these new rules, but then fine.

Why don't you just create a school? That has everybody in it who is vaccinated Most actually I don't I don't even understand I don't understand this because all of us are vaccinated So our we don't need to worry about it So in other words, we're gonna impose restrictions on people and force kids or whoever to get vaccinated To protect whom if all the adults are vaccinated. We're not protecting anybody. All we're doing is protecting I guess unvaccinated adults that makes no sense to me. Well, they're taking the risk, right? I mean if you're choosing to not get the vaccine at this point Friedberg You're taking some Significant level of risk or some moderate well, does the government have a responsibility to protect that person? I don't think it matters what I think matters is remember like the societal responsibility Is not and cannot be to protect every individual the societal responsibility is to make sure that society functions and And if we take a zoom back and I just want everyone to reset your brains Go back to March of last year and we were talking about the surge of deaths in hospitals and hospitals We're gonna be overwhelmed and that was the reason we needed to go into lockdowns and the reason we needed to stop the surge Even if this Delta variant is highly infectious There are enough people and people vaccinated in the United States at this point that this Delta variant is not gonna crush our hospital system It's not gonna cause massive amount of fatalities, which is the reason we went into lockdowns in the first place All of the concerns that we had last year that rationalized a lot of the extreme behavior that we undertook No longer exists and we are now talking about continuing those those behaviors under a different set of standards And the set of standards is now I can't put a teacher at risk I can't put an individual at risk and even if that individual got infected if the fatality rate is so low I can still say well, they could die therefore.

I can't have them exposed, right? And that has become the new standards what I think Saxon that that article kind of talked about a zero ism You know you get to a point if you're if you're fighting a war on a battlefield and you're like well I can't let any of my soldiers die. We can't move down the field You're not gonna move down the field You're not gonna win the war and I'm not saying that this is a war the point is society has to progress the economy has to progress People's lives have to progress people have to be educated life is about progress And if we halt progress because of the concern that any individual might get harmed because of the progress of the group as a whole We will not go anywhere and we've created a new set of standards that I think creates that very reality and it is frightening Let me let me me me put a finer point on this which is just this coat this Delta variant is just more COVID fear porn, okay This is the third variant of concern where they've been you know running around Alarm saying that you know we have to worry the truth is is it more transmissible? Yes It is going to I think sweep through areas of the country in the fall that aren't vaccinated But the question is how does it perform against the vaccines and so far the vaccines are holding up The the variants none of the variants have really punched through the vaccines in a meaningful way I think the stats on Pfizer were it's you know as it Maybe reduce the effectiveness from 95% to 88% or something like that But it wasn't a material difference if you are double vax with Pfizer You are protected against the Delta variant and so this is just more fear porn that they keep I'm agree I'm in agreement with you and I think this reminds me of When we were growing up in the 80s, they tried to scare us about sex and HIV And were you not going to have sex if you were in your 20s in the 90s and into the 80s? No, you learned about HIV you learned to use condoms you learned that you probably couldn't do You know what people did in the 60s and 70s, which you have many many partners You maybe had to have fewer partners maybe longer term partners But you could you could take your own risk by putting on a condom you could make that decision for yourself Here I think there's a group of people who don't want anybody to make any decisions for themselves And in this case the vaccine is wearing a condom if you're wearing a condom like your chance of getting HIV go down dramatically is just a known fact and we're 263 people on Average dying a day how many of those freed were do you think are with COVID versus? from COVID I have always I hate doing this because if people think it's like an inhuman analysis But the way that Actuaries or economists would kind of take a look at this sort of decision tree and this sort of data is The number of life years lost, okay? So imagine someone is gonna die tomorrow if someone's gonna die tomorrow and they catch COVID today And they die a day early you have lost a life day and everyone yes That is absolutely devastating and it is awful emotionally but like when we're making big decisions we have to think with the data and so If someone catches COVID and they and they lose five years and they die five years early than they statistically would have died That's five life years lost when a child dies You are losing 68 life years right that is an incredible loss of life is one is one way to kind of think about this statistically and so You know part of I think what's been missing in the equation and it's easy to tell the narrative By speaking about people that have dead that have died that tested positive for COVID when they died is It now speaks to the fact that this is a binary experience And there's a binary number of lives lost but the statistical the data driven exercise Which may sound inhuman and may sound awful, but again, we have to make these decisions Using data if we're gonna make large decisions that are gonna impact everyone in a meaningful way Is to look at the number of life years lost? And I think if you were to do that you would still find that the vast majority of deaths associated with COVID are very elderly people Who are already very close to dying and that's why we are seeing the fatality rates so low right now in the United States Even though COVID is still spreading with the Delta variant it is because almost 90% of people over 70 have been vaccinated And as a result the people that are most at risk of dying are well protected And we are not seeing a significant loss of life associated with this terrible virus The terrible virus is still spreading but the life loss is still not there and that someone might raise their hand and say well We don't know the long term implications long term ramifications long call COVID Yeah, I would raise my other hand and say show me what the data is that says that there are those long term implications ramifications Because I can say the what ifs about anything and then implement any policy decision I want by just saying what if and we don't know we have to say we do know here's the data in order to make a tough decision Versus saying we need to be you know protective and use the protective you know principle of Of precaution or the precautionary principle and be really careful in these circumstances Because at this point the impact and the damage associated with some of our practices to quote unquote guard against COVID and you know protect people It's turning out their real consequences to those decisions.

All right, freeberg final question on COVID Should you wear two condoms? In other words, should you get Moderna and Pfizer or J&J and Pfizer? There are studies coming out now to say one plus one equals three. There is some super effect of getting two I am looking into this. I'm thinking I'm gonna get a second vaccine I'm I get to get a Moderna or a Pfizer or J&J just don't wait. Don't wait. Don't waste the vaccine shots Let them go to other countries, you know not needed Not needed even though the studies are starting to show it gives you increased I mean, do you need your test? Do you need your Tesla to go from 180 to 185 miles an hour? I mean like, you know That's a good point.

I mean look everything we learn about the vaccines makes them look better and better the protection lasts longer than we thought the They're more effective against variants than people were afraid of and now we learn that there is even more protection by sort of This mix and match idea. So the vaccines have worked. There are still I think a couple of groups in America that are very vaccine hesitant Evangelicals and African Americans are the two groups. It was now Republicans It's it's more like evangelicals and so in a place like Mississippi where you have large numbers of both the vaccine rates only like 2930% it's actually pretty low in a place like that You could see the Delta variant sweep through in the fall and you could see a lot of cases I you know, let me let me buck your labeling categorization of me Jake I was ready to say it But by saying that I don't think the leaders on the right are doing anyone any favors any of their voters any favors by not coming out And saying look the vaccines work, you know, I think Trump could do a lot of good by coming out and just saying listen I got the vaccine.

I'm pretty sure he did right he did he did and so, you know, I think if you are In one of those groups, you know, and certainly you're over like 40 you should be getting the vaccine I mean they work not to harp on this But what did Trump say when you suggested he come out publicly about it? Nobody's listening to me. No, it's fine. Nobody's listening to me, obviously I mean it is very weird that Trump Spent massive amounts of money on the vaccine and now doesn't want to take credit for project lightspeed by telling everybody to get it I think he's got a lot of other issues I think he's got a lot of other issues on the plate to deal with including the indictment that just landed yesterday So maybe you know, maybe he just doesn't know what to focus on because he sees his His budding empire unraveling before him Did you see the report that said that Trump was extremely thrilled by the fact that his CFO was indicted for two reasons? one is it kind of Indicates and they didn't have enough to go after him and two is it's gonna make Joe Biden look bad and his administration look bad Because it looks like they're being kind of prosecuted and persecuted now But that he views this as a positive and it and he's thinking about it as a way to kind of stage a 2024 run Well, I didn't I didn't see that particular story, but I do think that Okay, well what the charges show I think is that they got nothing on Trump directly That I mean this turned out to be a big nothing burger after years of investigation Just like the whole Russia thing and so it's 15 felony counts have not Trump was not let me finish Trump Trump was not named they didn't get close to Trump All they got was they're trying to charge Westlalheim It was a CFO with basically receiving certain perks as compensation T&E violations.

It was crazy. Yeah, this is penny any stuff It does look like persecution rather than prosecution and what they're trying to do is they're going after this guy Westlalheim to squeeze him to try and roll over on Trump. Well, good luck with that That's about as likely to happen as Putin releasing the p tapes not gonna happen. Sorry, J. Cal Trump is getting away. So one thing I would say I think that I disagree with respectfully is This is a 15 year tax avoidance scheme that included more than T&E Included people getting their tuition paid for for free and free apartments So the would be and then hold on they then knowingly did this and change the books knowingly So they caught them going into their accounting and changing to hide it And so the cover up worse than the crime that this is an explicit way to not pay their taxes This would be if all of us took our personal residences and our kids And didn't pay taxes on it's it's significant Jason so the total amount for example that this guy got in tuition reimbursements over this 15 year period was about $375,000 the total amount of some other rent perks that he got was for about 1.6

or $7 million the total amount of value that I think his son got you know was spending a $1,000 a month in a Trump owned apartment when you add it all up for a guy that was accused of you know Being in cahoots with Russia this and that and everything You pinch the CFO for a few million dollars of effectively again T&E Let's just say that he did it, you know some of these checks came directly from Trump It I think I agree with David It's a bit of a nothing burger and it really does look like it's politically motivated and the reason is because These kinds of chargers are typically not brought These are things that typically result in a civil penalty or restatement and you just kind of move on You know nobody nobody's trying to send somebody to jail for you know getting for miss miscategorizing I have a very because we don't have full information and they weren't investigating this stuff before Trump became a politician Why weren't what this if this been going on for 15 years? Why didn't this investigation happen five six seven years ago? I could tell you why his the daughter in law of Weisselberg's was The received a lot of these perks and then she dropped a dime and gave all the documents to them My theory on this is because we don't have complete information yet.

I think that they have other I think they have this bigger tax case around making the assets look smaller when paying taxes and Inflating the value of the assets when getting loans and I think they want to get that and the way to get that is to flip Weisselberg Because Trump does not use email and communications. I think that that's what's going on here But yes, you're right. They're trying to try to flip him look The the KGB had a saying show us the man will tell you the crime. Okay, they decided we're gonna go after Trump This is entirely political.

They weren't interested in him five six seven years ago once he got into politics They became interested in him. He became the man and now they are trying to roll up and flip all these people and try to get Them to turn on Trump and give them something these Democratic pit bull prosecutors They are gonna make Trump look like the victim here. This will rebound. I think in a negative way It is it is a really stupid thing that they're doing I mean this this could have happened in so many different ways the guy was finished and washed up Right, he was in his little hovel in Florida, you know, no Twitter account, you know in the one no Twitter account No access to his base The one time he actually showed up in New York two or three weeks ago.

I don't know if you guys saw the photos He looks so disheveled so old so broken Let the guy wither into obscurity, but instead you pin these charges you create an entire press cycle You're gonna rally so many people on the right and actually a lot of people in general who feel like wait What are we doing as a country? Why don't we just let it just be done with this guy? I don't ever want to hear about him ever again and instead we're kind of like bringing it all back front center I just think it's a bad look.

What do you think about the insurrection commission? Do you think that that should? Should be disbanded as well to my because no you think that should that should be pursued Yeah, because that's not necessarily about Trump that it is about a whole totality of things that really will lead into the fact that we have a lot of far right organizations That need to be understood We have one far left organization that needs to be understood all in the same light which is that these folks are destabilizing force to democracy And so yeah, you got to get to the bottom of what the hell happened So do you think the insurrection commission is going to be equally kind of politically motivating for For Trump's base and for folks like that Well, I just think that You have to decide as a country whether you're going to keep re litigating, you know what happened in the previous administration I mean if we're going to go back and keep this going, you know, we're going to go back and look at why did the FBI use the steel dossier to go to a FISA court to spy on members of the Trump campaign And there are 17 Misrepresentations in their in their petition to the FISA court.

I mean there was clear misconduct there We're going to go back and re litigate that and go after people and punish them. Look, maybe we should okay But I think that this is the thing about politics. Everyone just wants to move forward We're in a new administration now whatever misconduct occurred. I think the punishment was paid at the ballot box I think it's just time to move on and I agree with that and I look I know there's gonna be a lot of Partisans on both sides who just want to go re litigate and punish their enemies forever But you know, I think the American people just want to move forward Yeah, I mean you in the far.

What are you in the far left want to do? Well, I'm not on the far left I mean, I I think that there is a I do think that there is a bunch of gamesmanship here I think this is a chessboard that on the left They're saying if we we if we have a chance to take Trump out of political life We need to do that because the cost of him getting reelected in 2024 is too great And so what we're talking about here is, you know, what is the best path to doing that and you know Chumat's right like just letting him fade into obscurity He may not want to run again because he's so old and it's so painful to be guys.

He's 75 I mean, he's gonna be 78 or no 70 It'd be the same age as Biden going. I mean this this is ridiculous both of these two guys are one term presidents I think that is abundantly clear. I think the question is what is Biden's transition plan You know, does he actually only stay two years and transitions it to Kamala? I don't know but there's no way that he's running for a second term either. He does not look healthy I think that much is at least I know and I'm saying this as you know, a centrist Democrat He doesn't look completely fit And it's only gonna get worse and this is the most incredibly stressful job in the world Neither of these two guys are our long term solution.

It's time to let it all go Right. It's like we had Four years of just chaos. We now get to have four years to catch our breath It's time to find the late 40s to mid 50s centrist normal people again and We have three years to do it. Who do you think that is on the Republican side and Chumap, who do you think it is on the Democrat side who's gonna run for the next election cycle? because just this morning by the way an article came out that highlighted that several insiders in the White House are completely like up in arms about how chaotic Kamala Harris's office is which is basically a way of starting to shoot her down, right? So if you think about the the motivation here someone in the White House is starting to shoot Kamala Harris down Which means they're starting to weaken her a little bit in terms of whether she could actually be a good replacement for the next term I don't know if that's truly the motivation, but that's typically what these sorts of stories indicate So if not her if not her who on the Democrat side and you know If not Trump who on the Republican side in the next election cycle because those folks are gonna start to pop their head up, right? The well, I mean, I think the I think the person who has enough credibility to take a shot It's not clear that she will but if she did she would be really serious and she could actually get people to be relatively normal as Nikki Haley On the right but Rhonda Santis is gonna be the rights candidate, correct? And she's kind of normal.

This answers is definitely the early front runner There was a straw poll and when she was the first Republican to actually run ahead of Trump in a straw poll for what four or five years and So yeah, it looks like he now he's running for reelection in Florida in 2022 so that's on his plate. Yeah, but I think it looks like he's going to sweep to victory He made the right decisions on lockdowns This is the central feather in his cap that before any other governor really he looked at the data Saw that to free berks point lockdowns don't make a difference He went back to normal the state benefited you look at per capita covid deaths in Florida It's middle of the pack and which is actually a really good result given how many old people they have So he did a phenomenal job.

I think setting covid policy in Florida and he did it in the face of a hostile media that was just tearing him limb from limb And so he showed that he normally can find the right policy But that he's got the spine to stand up for it and I think as a result of that Yeah, he has galvanized early the Republican base if he wins Reelection in 2022 by a by a strong margin I think he does become the putative frontrunner for 2024 very similar in a way I think to the way that that George W.

Bush, you know, he basically won Reelection in Texas two years before he ran for president and on the heels of that victory. He was able to make the case Look, I just got reelected a very popular in a huge state of the country, you know, I should be the frontrunner I think to Sanchez in a similar position. What do you think about Nikki Haley sex? I think Nikki Haley is sort of popular with the establishment wing of the Republican Party But she does not bring together both the sort of the establishment wing with the populist wing and what DeSantis has been able to do is get the business Republicans and the establishment Republicans to get behind him as well as the populist Trump base loves him and that's that's the That's the combo you got to have I think to win the Republican nomination and so Nikki Haley I think, you know, everybody who sort of reads elite media is gonna over index on her But if you go to the straw polls and the rallies, she's not just not gonna perform in those polls There's a very interesting article in Politico though over the past week about how DeSantis is being very careful Not to do anything to upset Trump and I think he understands You see the VP candidate with Trump you think? Well, that that pre assumes a lot of things happening.

I mean look, we don't know what's gonna happen I think that you know The number one way to resurrect Trump is what Jamal said is to keep poking that bear to fill him With the the rage to to sort of counterpunch and come back I think it would be better however for a new generation of leaders to look we have we're being run by a Gerontocracy right now. So I mean just Biden is 78 Pelosi is 80 Schumer is 77 McConnell is 80 and Trump is 75 and that's today. Okay in 2024 all those people are gonna be in their 80s Or just about who will even be alive.

I mean Feinstein will be 91 or 92 It's time to have a new generation a lot of parties. Why are we being run by this Gerontocracy? What a joke do we want to move on to the drought and impending Death and or the Facebook FTC dismissal Oh, that was incredible and also at the FTC got two gut punches in a row And then you know Amazon writes this petition to recuse Lena Khan It's like that's why she was hired Incredible was hired because she's an expert on Amazon the Amazon the Amazon letter was actually extremely well written and basically said I know that she's in charge Basically finding fairness and fairness seems to be that we will get legislated But we believe that it's unfair to us.

So please take her out of a mix. I just think it was fantastic I mean, it's incredible. It's like isn't this the point of having her in the job It's like we've hired a new prosecutor who specializes in organized crime and the Gambino crime family has petitioned to have them Exactly recused From doing any work right there their argument is that she should be recused because she published Articles, I am yeah that Amazon should be broken up and they're saying she's ready prejudged the situation There's no way this is gonna fly There's no way she's gonna get recused But I think what they're trying to do is put an argument on appeal so that if Lena Khan does break them up somehow They can then go appeal to the stream court or wherever and this is basically reserving an argument They can make later.

So just to highlight the FTC brought this case against Facebook saying that they're a monopoly and their monopolistic practices are damaging the market the DC federal court throughout the case and They basically said that the FTC failed to demonstrate in any way That Facebook has a monopoly over anything because they kept using the 60% market share term and they're like 60% What and the FTC was never able to give them data or facts to indicate what Facebook has a 60% share of There are other social media services. There are other advertising platforms. There are other content sites that are all In aggregate much larger than Facebook and so the case was dismissed because there was no demonstration at all Which is why Lena Khan is of the traditional definition of a monopoly and then Elizabeth Warren comes out two days ago and says we need to rewrite the laws The anti trust laws entirely redefine what it means to be a monopoly redefine what this this impacts And so I think the big question is how much of a priority is it going to be for this administration and for this Congress before they're out of session And we end up with a split Congress again to step up and rewrite anti trust laws at this point Is this really a high priority question? Or is it gonna get over by the end of the con is being brought in is to take another approach like we talked about on the last episode which is you know the harm is competition and not The monopolistic power but downstream competition as Chimoth eloquently explained on the last pod the irony of the Elizabeth Warren Statements whereas that she released them on Twitter not her Facebook somebody dunked on her like she's talking about the monopolistic powers of Facebook on Twitter Right, right.

Yeah, it's the point I'd say I mean how big of a like legislative priority is this gonna be for? Democrats because it could be really if they rewrite the laws It could be impactful to Amazon Apple Facebook, you know, it's a huge priority There's six bills that just got passed in the house is going to the Senate and I do think moving fast This is one of the areas where you could actually get some bipartisan agreement in the Senate You remember it's a 5050 Senate all it would take would be a few Democrats to defect and they wouldn't be able to pass anything But you got 21 Republicans who supported Lena Khan So, you know, that says to me that legislation is likely.

I think it's gonna go through I think we are gonna see some some big changes and in fairness to Lena Khan this FTC lawsuit that got thrown out Was brought before she got there. She didn't have a chance to shape those arguments. They have 30 days to refile It'll be really interesting to see how she handles this hot potato now Whether she brings the lawsuit in a different way in the next 30 days or whether she lets it drop But I do think that of all the big tech companies the argument for breaking up Facebook is the weakest because It's true like it's it's harder to say definitively They have a monopoly in social networking when you've got Twitter you've got snapchat you've got reddit You've got LinkedIn you've got LinkedIn You've got so many other companies in social media But but that does not mean that the argument against Amazon Google and Apple isn't strong Those companies are clearly monopolies or duopolies in their spaces.

Nobody can effectively compete with them their network effects or monopoly scale effects I think that Facebook's monopolistic impact probably tends towards some form of information distribution But it's a very technical argument that has to be framed accurately on the one side or It's how they've aggregated long tail advertisers on the other but to your point David on the idea of social networking I don't think they're a monopoly at least also they're re litigating the approved acquisitions of Instagram and WhatsApp I kind of feel like if you bought these things and you approved it What is it nine years ago and seven years ago? Yeah, they said they said if you guys had an issue that you know the state's attorney general that filed this the suit against the Instagram acquisition and what's up? They're like if you had an issue with it You should have filed the suit years ago you waited too long and clearly there's you know You know other motivation like just because Google was successful buying YouTube Doesn't mean you can go back in and rewind YouTube because they did a great job building YouTube 99.99

9% of YouTube success is because of Google not because of you here They took a small team and they rebuilt that whole thing and they scaled the heck out of it Let me ask you a question to sacks if these companies paid more taxes and Got out of the censorship business Do you think they could you know maybe take a little wind out of the sales of yes? Yeah, of course look the only reason the only reason those 21 Republicans have now gotten on board with Regulating the power of these big tech companies as they see those big tech companies Using their gatekeeper power to restrict free speech and it's all one sided and as parted in Against you know their side of the aisle because these companies are Populated generally speaking by people on the other side of the aisle and so you know big tech if they had just reigned in their own impulses To want to censor the other side they would not be in the hot water.

They're in right now They're not on that now because it seems like Facebook is starting to backtrack on the Trump ban Well, they haven't Twitter and I think I think they got a big problem now. No look I think they should have been doing this over the last couple of years the cat's out of the bag what they thought could never happen all of a sudden became arbitrary and The thing that they did was they started to legislate a private company started to legislate power and That's just a third rail issue the minute you do that you have every government in the world saying to your saint to themselves Wait a minute.

I am only focused on this one thing, right? I don't take a huge salary I've been grinding at the low levels of politics for 40 50 years to get to this exact place And now I have a bunch of hipsters in Menlo Park telling me what I can and can't say To the people that I worked a lifetime to basically be able to govern over. I mean, you know, yeah It can't it can't stand. Yeah, so I think a big mistake that Zuckerberg made goes all the way back to 2016 Facebook basically bought into the disinformation argument.

They apologized for it. What's that was the time for Zuckerberg to fight He should have said no listen Was the FSB were these bad actors on Facebook? Yes But when you look at the total number of impressions and page views, it was like a drop of water in the ocean We're not the ones who caused this election to go the way it did Obama use Facebook very effectively in 2008 And nobody had a problem with us then and that was the time to fight That was a time to fight and to your point David He actually should have been even more he said the reason Trump got elected was not me But it was Obama, you know, he could have really gone on the attack and he would have done himself Well, Hillary just ran a bad campaign if Hillary had just campaigned in Wisconsin It would have gone a different way in 2016.

So what was up should she had an idiot team? She had an idiot terrible team and they were bad at everything including Facebook including Social media so it's actually said listen don't blame us for the fact the campaign was bad at social media I put victory into the jaws of defeat Let's end on this you a sprinter case. I think it's super interesting. You're sprinter shock Richardson test positive from marijuana and it's suspended a month putting her Tokyo What a joke doubt She is the gold medal favorite in the women's 100 meter and she could miss the games after testing positive She said she smoked pot when she found out in Oregon legally when she found out her mom had died And it's on the United States terrible.

I don't being agency Announced this result on Friday Her explanation is so fucking heartbreaking. I Mean what are we doing here? Like what are we doing here? This decision well there was there was this is similar to the golfer who was about to win the PGA and got kicked out on the final Day because he tested positive for COVID without any symptoms dumb and an outdoor. He's outside guys I can't imagine I cannot imagine a worse drug for a sprinter than marijuana Yeah, I mean for healing great, but it's I mean you're gonna blow run the hundred stop for a cheeseburger You're gonna take it up.

It's not a performance enhancing drug What this is is this legalism these bureaucratic legalistic technicalities gone wild in this case or this runner in the case of the golfer I mean, it's like it's like the bureaucrats enforcing the rules have completely lost sight of what the purpose these rules are the spirit of the rule is super important and There was a professional snowboarder and His name was Ross But Galati from Canada and he wanted a medal and they took his medal away Because he had THC in his system and Qualified him and then they went back and gave him his medal back.

I believe and so this is Heartbreaking and ridiculous and I I'm not gonna watch the I love watching the Olympics. I watch a lot of the Olympics I really enjoy it. I think it's awesome and I'm just not gonna watch this this year. Fuck it I just I'm so offended by this like you want these people to take like Opioids for their pain and suffering when you want to take some anti depressant. I mean Jesus Christ Jason look also Say like in in our friend group. We have a handful of NBA players and I don't I don't think you remember this conversation Maybe you do.

I think we were all together when they talked about the Up until Marijuana was more widely used in the NBA. Yes the pills that these players were given We're literally borderline opioids crazy rip their stomach apart ripped everything apart, you know created dependencies and All of a sudden you had a natural alternative and people are gonna judge folks for taking me I mean these guys are Brutalizing their bodies for enter for effectively our entertainment and then we don't give them a reasonable way to manage their pain It's outrageous and everybody else is smoking a doobie during half time We're taking a gummy on the way home to sleep.

I mean it's so hypocritical And it feels like I mean this country just feels like it's being run by a bunch of bureaucratic technocratic Weenies and whether monitors all monitors whether it's we should give them a wedgie and throw them in the locker I got to be should do with this. I whoever put this person they got a wedgie and get thrown in a locker. I Knew you had I knew you were a school yard bully J. Cal. I'm not a school yard bully But I do think the hall monitors, you know those P. I you were a hall monitor weren't Did you volunteer to be a hall monitor? Be honest.

No, no, no, you were in the chess club. I liked our chess game sacks. Yeah Okay, this is how I knew this is how I knew that J. Cal wasn't really I knew I knew I had heard him Okay, I knew he was generally hurt, but I knew he would get over it when I got I saw my push notifications or a quest from Com he started a chess game with me So I'm like, oh, how did I play because I'm a neophyte He couldn't be away from easy was it to beat me? You guys a 1200 player to my 600.

Yeah Well, the chess comm analysis said that I was never I was never in any danger, but I thought you played pretty well and Yeah, give me a tip. What's my tip? Well, you you didn't castle fast enough you let me you let me try to get that bishop out Yeah, you let me trap your king in the center and then you know, it was a but but you did good You did good. All right, I knew I was okay with you and I got the chest Maybe we're all just a little cooped up It's a quick 48 hour run this weekend Should we do a little 48 hour Vegas run? All right, everybody, this has been an amazing episode.

So I'm officially unblocking sacks And I even followed him. Love you Chimoth. Love you sacks. Love you free bird I have something to say to you as well, which is I appreciate you I I I love I love sister break that fuck it back at you Let your winners ride Rain man David I'm going all in and it said we open source it to the fans and they've just gone crazy with it. I'm going all in Besties are My dog thinking I wish your driveway We should all just get a room and just have one big huge or because they're all Just like this like sexual tension that we just need to release somehow.

What you're about be what your feet? We need to get merges are Are you wearing your boxers? What are you wearing? I'm not sure what it was. He's my swim trunks. Oh, the trunks. Ah, there they are. The internet famous legs. I mean, these legs are actually much, much bigger. Look, I think they're Oh, please tell me you're recording me. Look at how big these are.


