---
description: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NgEvzcyXyyE
---

# E59: Twitter's content warning algo, equity audits, politicians trading stocks, Fed's next move

Date: 12/17/2021

Duration: 1 hours, 28 minutes, 26 seconds

Model: Whisper-small

Let's talk about the sweaters, okay? David, let's start with you, because I love it. I love it. David. I fucking love that. I decided to up my sweater game for Chamath. This is Tom Ford. I love it. Tom Ford. Tom Ford, the buttons are made out of endangered rhino horn. We just lost a third of the audience. So my sweater is a very light Italian cashmere made by a company called Doriani. Doriani cashmere. This right here is a little... I thought we weren't doing plugs for our startups. This is how we're monetizing the All In Pod.

There we go. Doriani cashmere just got a free... This right here is a little young calf leather. Very soft, very soft. And the buttons, like David's, are made from shark fin. And for those of you at home who would like to spend $150 and stay warm, may I recommend the Marine layer? You can find it on Union Street jacket. I mean, how... I also find that jacket on Turch Street. How tilted is sweater Karen listening to this? Sweater Karen, if you're listening... Sweater Karen. I mean, you must never reveal... Sweater Karen got back to me and she was like, oh my God, he's so tilted.

I think I know who she is. Sweater Karen can kiss my brown ass. So Jade comes home last night, I kid you not. She's like, I don't like you in the t shirts. I got you some sweaters. And I was going to the mountains for the holiday and I was like, did you watch the podcast about the sweater? She's like, no, I don't listen to your podcast. I was like, okay, fair enough. And I'm like, I'm looking at these things through all these boxes and she's got this bunch of sweaters. I started up and I was like, what did you spend on this? She said $3,000.

I was like, I'm not comfortable spending $3,000 on a sweater. That's half a sweater. Let alone eight of them. And she was like, no, it's $3,000 for all of it. Yeah, Chamath is like, is that a sleeve? That's a... She's like, it's $3,000 for all eight. Four buttons and a waistband? That might be a vest for Chamath. I think that's the box that's the sweater came in with $3,000. So I got my three quarters and I'm feeling good. I'm feeling really good. I feel pretty sexy and I'll be honest. I like your winter slide. Rainman, David Sarton.

I'm going all in. And it said we open sources to the fans and they've just gone crazy with it. I love you guys. I'm the queen of Kim Wau. I'm going all in. Hey everybody, everybody. Welcome to the Holland Podcast. Yes, breaking into the top 50 podcast week after week because of you, the amazing audience, telling your friends about the podcast. It's been two weeks, so it's week and week. All right, week after week. That's what I said, week after week. A week and a week. A week and a week. For two weeks. Hitting the top 40 podcast episodes in the world thanks to the fans with me, of course, the dictator himself in a amazing sweater.

Light cashmere gilet. Light cashmere gilet. The Sultan of Science. I found out from his mom, she much prefers the Sultan of Science to Queen of Kenwasso. That's what we're going with going forward. David Freberg, who had a great party up in Beep. And I really enjoyed going. And Saks, who didn't go to Beep's party or to Freedberg's party. He stayed home and played chess on his iPhone. The Rain Man himself, David Saks. Welcome to the pod, everybody. Okay, you want my two New York stories? My one true bestie, Jason Calicanus. It's true. No, that's not true.

I really wanted to come, but not breastfeeding. And so I couldn't come. The helipad was shut down. Shemak couldn't land. You were getting breastfed? I got breastfed. Come on, come on, come on. Jeez. There was like, was there a curb you were through? Oh no, it was this great show called Afterlife from Ricky Gervais. There's literally a scene in it where a woman, they work for a local newspaper that's going out of business and they're going to do local stories. And the big story in town is a woman is making pudding, incredibly delicious pudding, and it's from her breast milk.

And they go and cover the story. Anyway, I'll just leave it at that. It's a pretty amazing story. Do you want to know my two New York stories or not? Yeah, let's hear it. What were you saying? You had a helicopter story? What's that? Helicopter story. Helicopter is also a New York story. So I went to Deepdale to play golf with a certain well known individual and we chopper back. A finance individual? Media? A well known political individual. Oh, political, okay. So this is not a rock and roller. You do not want to step foot in a helicopter with a rock and roller store.

No, so here's my story, which is why I totally freaked out about helicopters. And I can't, this was eight years ago. We played Deepdale, which is just outside New York, get in the chopper lands in the middle of the thing. I was like, okay, that's fine. And we're going, and I'm already feeling kind of skittish. I don't like helicopters. Get to the East side of Heliport. And the East side of Heliport is basically right by the East River. And so the helicopter descends and one of the skis doesn't actually land on the fucking thing. And so it does a little tilty poops and then the guy comes back up and then he lands.

You, I'm honestly like, I have never been more scared in my life. All right, that's it. When I was like, that's it. I don't want any besties. It's a bestie band for life. We're making a pact here. Nobody in fucking Hong Kong. It's crazy. So that's why I'm on New York. Last New York story was I was there two days ago, or for the last couple of days. For Santa Con? In the middle of this Omicron breakout. By the way, had a beautiful dinner after the game, Dreymon, Kevin, Dredd, me, bunch of friends. Did you go to the game? No, we went to the private room at Carbone.

It was so brutal, though, I have to tell you, I feel so disgusting with myself. I had a work dinner and I have sushi at the work dinner. And then, you know, DreyTex after the game, he's like, hey, we're all having dinner at Carbone. I said, okay, I'll head through. I went to the hotel. I called Nat and I said, I'm brushing my teeth. And she said, but you're going out. And I said, yes, but if I brush my teeth, I'm not going to eat a second dinner. Second dinner. And I thought, you know, and then, but I made a team mistake, but I didn't floss.

So I was unflawed, but I brushed my teeth. I show up and fucking I lose it. And wine and dessert and bread. Rigatoni, alavaca, uh oh. It was really brutal. And by 3 a.m., I stumble home. And I felt so bad because I had to wake up at like, you know, 8 o clock in the morning. No, my first meeting was a 7.45. Well, congratulations to Seth. I heard, by the way. Incredible, no? Great shooter of all time. He's a virtuoso. Anyways, that was my New York story. I gained, you know. Here's my, here's my car bone.

I gained one kilo. 2.2 pounds I gained in two days. Here's my car bone story. Hardest thing to, the hardest reservation to get in New York. Sacks is like, Jake, I don't need to help me. What's the best place in New York to do a closing dinner? I'm like, I got you. I got my guy. Get my guy on the horn. My guy's like, okay, I got you. Car bone, Friday fucking night. 8 o clock, hardest ticket in New York. You know what Sacks does? It goes dark. Friday afternoon, 1 p.m. He's like, yeah, we're not gonna make it.

I'm like, my friend is like, Jake, how? Your guy burned the car bone res? That was the bird IPO. I was gonna take the founder out to dinner that night at Carbone and then it turned out to be like the big group dinner with like 30 people. So it moved over to Brooklyn. Well, by the way, the private room, which is like, you know, not in the restaurant, but it's like a little bit on the side. It only fits like 15, 20 people. So it's not like, and that's it. Then it's really tight. How, what was Steph's, how did Steph feel? No, Steph wasn't there.

Dreymon, Kevin, me, Benny Fowler, Morrell, but just a bunch of other things. Kevin Durant? Yeah. Kevin Durant still, huh, friendly with, he's honestly, he's such a great guy. I love Kevin Durant. He's really, he is really, really, really, wish he had stayed. Super, super sensitive, cool. He's friends again with, he's always, he's always, he's always, I mean, I think that when they had their blow up, it was more like their brothers. And it was just a little bit like when you started talking like Joe Pesci. Did Kevin Durant ever start talking about Joe Pesci? Hey, good time baseball.

All right. It was an eventful week on Twitter. We're only one week into the new Twitter CEO's reign. Jack is gone and already David Sacks has been flagged. It's a guy, it can't be a coincidence that you were talking about them flagging accounts at the end of free speech and then pull it up on the screen everyone. Investors should be spending their time finding good investments, not endlessly debating interest rates, inflation and tax policy. But that's the uncertainty Washington has created. It's a great tweet. I like that tweet actually. And then the flag, the conversation from Sacks has been flagged.

Some conversations can get heavy. Don't forget the human behind the screen. Do you think that this is, that's machine learned or do you think that that's a, an interesting question? I think that this is, that's machine learned or do you think that that's an editor that goes in there and actually manually flags machine learned? No, I think that's a great question. But what is in there that actually triggers debating Washington, interest rates, tax policy, Washington. I'm not sure that you could build. Or maybe it's the ratio. I don't know how you would build a function that would weight this in a way where this could get flagged of all the things you could say with those words.

This is so benign. Well, I think it's the kind of, it seems to be this thing's trying to ward off bullying attacks on Sacks, which I don't think Sacks needs to be too worried about. All right. Cause they're telling this to people who would reply. You're saying it's there to protect me. It's to protect you. It's one of those things where they're like trying to get people to not insult you in the comments. I'm talking about that. Maybe you get a lot of, do you get a, do you get a lot of insults and comments on your tweets? Oh, undoubtedly.

But this tweet, this tweet's comments section was pretty benign. Oh, right. So, it might be a tweet. It might be about the replies. No, this wasn't that hot. This wasn't that hot. I think Jomoth might be onto something. You know, Michelle Taylor got the same label around the same day for a tweet that seemed totally innocuous too. So what I wonder about is, you know, is this label to protect us or is it a way, is it sort of a passive aggressive way for snowflakes at Twitter to like label people they don't like and sort of suggests they're vaguely disreputable? I don't think it's that.

I don't think it's that. It's a left wing conspiracy. It's the, it's the libs going after the, the sex, your parents. Have you seen any liberals getting, I haven't seen any like left wing people getting labeled this way. There seems to be a blanket attempt to try to kind of mute the tone a little bit across the debating that happens and the comments that come across in the replies. And I think they're just trying to like get everyone to tone it down a bit. I think it's a really destroyer before you tweet it. It'd be really interesting to know whether this was algorithmic or was editorial.

Cause I think if it's editorial, it does actually, I don't think it's as extreme as what David just said, but it skews more in the realm of like people with an axe to grind can flag one thing over another or not. Right. But if it's algorithmic, I think that that algorithm probably just needs a lot of tweaking cause it's not. Well, anyway, this doesn't it say that there's a person behind the tweet. It's like trying to get people to not say. The warning is charming. The warning is charming. Nice to each other. It's ridiculous. It's like your mom inserting herself and being like, now remember.

It's, it's there to suggest that there might be something wrong with the content that's being posted. Well, you know, in other words, in other words, the content is so triggering that, you know, it needs warning labels. Do you guys think that paternalism has a role on social networks to try and mollify the, the kind of discourse being too acrimonious? Like, I think we need some, some of the transparency that Jack Dorsey repeatedly promised that all the congressional hearings, remember when he got hauled up there, he promised that they would give more transparency about the way that their algorithms worked.

Where is that? And it hasn't been delivered up. They promised it. Now Jack Dorsey skipped out of town and there's a new guy in charge. Well, we need to know how these algorithms work because they are pressing their thumb on the scale, you know, of debate in the marketplace of ideas by suggesting that some ideas are sketchier than others. They should just put here, this was algorithmically done based on, they should explain it. Under the, there should be a little question mark. You have the question mark based on the words in the thread. It feels like things are getting heated here.

We did this with an algorithm or users reported this as a heated thread. So we put this here or a human. We decided. No, we decided. Yeah. But you want it to be an open marketplace of ideas, but the fact is it's Twitter's marketplace of ideas. Yeah. And Facebook's, is Facebook's marketplace of ideas. And at the end of the day, I don't think you're going to get away from any of these centralized social networks having anything but some degree of moderation to play a role in a related thing. They didn't just target sacks. Also, Chimatha, you didn't see this, but they flagged one of your tweets just this afternoon.

Pull it up. As you can see here, it's a slightly different one. It says layers are for players. This conversation will drift to $5,000 sweaters. So a big warning for Chimatha just and for the people replying, be careful. This that must be, that must be then that must have been human, you know, human. That's human in general. For sure. And this one came in or ProfG, another one came in for ProfG. So, and then in this case, I think they're actually trying to think about the public good. This guy is full of shit. He thought Jaycee Benning would beat Amazon.

How many, how many hours of masterclass Adobe Photoshop did you take to get this little joke? I didn't make these. My meme team did. I'm convinced that there's two ways to raise your next fun in Silicon Valley. One, have one of the top 50 podcasts in the world or two, have a strong meme game and I'm going for both. Saks now has a warning on his and this one, they put it on your profile page. This was crazy. Warning. This person is interesting things to say. If you, if you're too interesting, you get labeled now.

It's really crazy. No, I saw Jay, I saw Jay having too much fun with this. And I'm like, I got to get it on this. You're like, I need a meme team. Yeah, exactly. If anybody out there, I don't care if you're, I need a comedian, I'm willing to pay on a paper meme, a paper viral, whatever it takes. Okay. In a related story, Democrats want racial equity audits at tech companies, according to the Washington Free Beacon, which Saks, correct me if I'm wrong, that's some sort of wacky right wing publication. Never heard of it.

Okay. Washington Free Beacon. If instituted orders would have veto power over every product or initiative, that's not an exaggeration is what the story says. One proposal from House Democrats would find companies 20,000 a day for not completing by any independent racial equity audits. A left wing nonprofit called Color of Change is pushing for these audits. Last week, their president called for independent auditors to vet new products from tech companies before they're released in front of Congress. 2018 Color of Change, they suddenly pushed Facebook into completing an audit. They called for more restrictions on Trump's posts.

Color of Change itself pushed for Trump to be permanently banned from the platform. Just so you know, this is exactly the rough version of what happened to Microsoft in their DOJ settlement, their antitrust settlement, was effectively an oversight where lawyers at the DOJ were the product managers and had not effectively veto right, but you had to approve product features before you could push them for 10 years. This is essentially what caused bombers rain to be so inyomenous. It's like you couldn't do anything because you had a plan to do something and you'd have to go to these random folks who didn't really have the context to make a decision one way or the other on feature.

So, I mean, the idea that they would do this is pretty crazy. I need a point of clarification here. I've heard the term racial audits or racial equity audits. My understanding of those were to understand the composure of the company in terms of the diversity in the company, but this is something different. This is in the product to make sure the product isn't racist. Can products be racist? What's an example of a product being racist? I don't understand what they would find. Let me unpack this for you. Okay. What they are basically saying is that these big companies and for example, they've called on Google to conduct one of these audits.

They want all these big companies to conduct these audits. These so called auditors are actually political consultants who are members of the Democratic Party who are friends of the senators who are pushing for this. They're political activists. It's a grift. It's partly a grift, but it's more than that because, you know, when you conduct an audit, let's just take this word audit for a second. Okay. You bring in a big five accounting firm and they will check your numbers according to generally accepted accounting principles gap and make sure that the numbers are what you purported them to be.

That is the purpose of an audit. And if the auditor ever says that you've done anything wrong, like you have to fix it, there's no choice. Or you can appeal to some other auditor and have them redo the work. Okay. According to these generally accepted principles, with an equity audit, what exactly are the principles that are being enforced or checked here? There is no generally accepted list of equity principles that must be enforced. These companies basically you have to do whatever this political activist tells you to do. I mean, it's essentially like bringing in a party commissar to now take over the company or at least be inside the company telling the executives and officer of the company what to do.

It's something that frankly the CCP would do. It does feel a little like, yeah, stasi like, didn't we have all of the companies on their own from Twitter to Google to Facebook release their own diversity stats years ago? I think this is about more than diversity. It's about equity. It's about equity. So let's explain the difference in what that means. This is somehow how the companies run like the day to day life of the employees. They're not just the composure and the breakdown of the employee. Look, equity, equity means anything that progressives say it means.

We've seen on this program before how equity has dumped the shock. There's now, there's a provision in the infrastructure bill for tree equity. So, I mean, really any disparity that occurs that progressives don't like can now be called a violation of equity. And this gives them the authorization to come in there and start giving orders. It's very weird that I don't understand how the product then review gets stopped. Has that been to throttle you from leasing product as a punitive? Let me give you an example. So recently, you know, I wrote a piece called the no buy list where I basically, you had companies like PayPal and some of these other financial firms were starting to deny service to customers, to users based on their political affiliations.

And not just like people who are in, you know, well known hate groups that like everybody sort of, you know, issues and wants to stay away from. But these are people with relatively down the middle conservative, you know, conservative groups and they were being denied service by, you know, fintech firms. So now I'm not saying that this is what this means, but if this equity auditors tells you, well, look, I don't think it's equitable to allow these conservative groups to, you know, be a user of your product. Well, what's the company going to do? They're going to have to listen to that.

And that is a plausible scenario given that it's already occurred. We've said this so many times on the pod, but I just want to say it again because I guess a lot of folks are new and listening. Whenever you hear equity used by a politician, it usually means there's a power grab involved. Because if you really want things to be fair, you want things to be equal. Right. You want a quality. But whenever you start throwing over the word equity around and say we want racial equity, it's a bunch of, you know, a small number of people who, you know, basically have and live by what's often called luxury beliefs, who want to judge other people, who want to be morally absolutist, and then who want to basically like, you know, exercise a power grab.

And we have to push back on that stuff because it's just a slippery, slippery slope. Well, this also seems like overbearing red tape for companies. I mean, if the company has no problems, no complaints against it, you know, releases their diversity numbers, like, what is the point of going in and auditing them? Let's use an example that builds on what David said. Let's take Square. Okay. One of the most incredible things that Square did was in a hackathon, essentially, build the cash app. And one of the most incredible things that happened in the cash app was that it really started to blow up in urban communities.

Okay. And it starts to normalize banking, opening up bank accounts, having more savings, understanding, you know, an on ramp into crypto. You know, cash app has probably done more to get black and brown people into crypto and to save money and to understand their cash than almost anybody else as like a 100% explicit strategy. And so is somebody supposed to go in there and just, you know, arbitrarily judge whether there's too many white people that work at Square or not enough black people. And so XYZ thing has to change or such and such a feature doesn't actually speak to folks.

So you can't do it. It's insanity. It's like also to your point, Sacks, is what are the, what do these people know? Like what is their qualification and what's the goal? Right. And to build on Tramoss point, if these senators, so I think Cory Booker was the one who proposed this, if these senators want those specific policies implemented in the Fortune 500, let them pass a bill to do it and let all of our elected representatives vote on that bill. And then we can see if it'll really, if it's popular enough to pass and whether it passes constitutional muster, they won't do that because these bills, if they were directly concretized before, would be very unpopular.

So instead what they do is tell you, well, we're not going to do this directly. We're going to put pressure on these big companies to hire one of our political friends, again, this like commissar like person and empower them to tell these companies what to do. So it's really kind of insidious what they're doing. And they're kind of covering it all up with these nice sounding names. I mean, who could be against a racial equity audit, right? Racists. Yes, if you're against it, you must be a racist and you must not believe in auditing companies.

Right. So it's just word game. You have to, you just, it's a word game. It's using words that are really loaded and mean a lot to a lot of us, right? If I hear racism and race, it might, you're triggering. It's not triggering, but might years perk up and I have, I have a lot of inbuilt opinions on it that have been governed for 45 years as living as a, as a brown man. And so, okay, it stands to reason that I'm going to pay attention, but on the surface, if you say racial equity audit, it also doesn't seem actually all that bad.

It seems like reasonably benign and that seems like an okay thing to do. It's just that most of us then stop at that point and move on. Right. But if you actually look at the rules, again, I would just say whenever political frameworks use the word, we need to create more equity. The outcomes are horrible. For example, look in healthcare. If we have used this idea of healthcare equity, health equity, and we've misused it to such a degree, and all we see is that now the system is so perverted, it also doesn't work for the majority of people that have actually had the healthcare system work for it.

Right. Like at the top of the pecking order has always been white men have always gotten the best care. And we've always measured our healthcare progress in America based on the longevity of men, white men, you know, 78, 79, 80 years old. And then it started to degrade and people were curious what was happening. And underneath it all was just a bunch of power grabs under the realm of equity. We passed all these crazy laws. We basically didn't do anything to really create more accountability and a cost based system. And here we are. So at some point when the citizen rehears that word, you're going to have to put your thinking cap on and actually take the opposite view, which is, hold on, this is a really nice sounding word.

It may not be what I think it is. And I got to pay attention because more than if I didn't hear the word at all, anything you have on race, Friedberg, representing South Africans. I don't think this is about race, J. Call. I think this is about power. Power. It feels like a power grip. Also it feels like a little grip. It feels like a little bit of a grift. I know I had heard on the back channel that a lot of the people who are criticizing some big tech companies who were getting, you know, I'm not going to say who or under what monocles are you talking about, but there was a group of people who were like attacking big tech.

If she has an opinion on sweater, she must have an opinion on racial equity. Come on. Leave sweater Karen out. The issue is they would complain and create these, you know, basically, you know, Twitter mobs, and then they'd say, oh yeah, and hire us for $20,000, we'll come in and fix the problem for you. So they were creating the Twitter mob to come in and solve the problem. That's so brutal. Like, oh wow, that is so brutal. That's so dirty. No, I mean, these HR consultants who've written these books, like, was it a Dangela or whatever on white fragility and how to be an anti racist, I mean, they're all making a fortune in corporate fees, you know, charging $20,000, $30,000 per gig.

I mean, it is absolutely a racket. I'm not a fan of equality of outcome. I'm more a fan of equality of opportunity. And I think many, many of these sorts of folks, I try and identify methods to drive equality of outcome. And it inhibits the competitive forces that cause the best person, the best idea, the best business, the best market model to win. And, you know, I think it's easy to conflate the two when you don't really think through it, but it is certainly appropriate and reasonable to make sure that folks aren't discriminated against when they apply for a job.

I don't think it's appropriate to then apply considerations of race and other factors when people are equally in the same job on who gets to have the chance at the bonus. It is the best performer that should have the chance at the bonus. And the same should be true in marketplaces and the same should be true with business. And I think that what we're really seeing is this fundamental effort to try and generate equality and outcomes in lots of different manifestations. And we're seeing it more frequently and more severely than we've seen it historically. But it's not, I don't think it's the right model and it's only going to lead to demise of marketplace dynamics and the things that cause forces for success and progress to win.

You know, we mentioned this a couple of times. I'll just say it again. But we are about to have probably the most significant movement and questioning of equity versus equality because I think in the next month, maybe in the next two months, we're going to sort of see a pretty strict opinion on affirmative action. And if you talk to legal scholars, the overwhelming consensus is this is gone. And we're going to have to figure out how to rebuild what was a really important system that tried to give folks at least getting to the starting line in the same way.

But it's not really going to exist in the same way she performed. Speaking of Karen's, Elizabeth Warren was bashing Elon over taxes. And Elon has a Twitter handle with some followers and he responded. Elizabeth Warren says, let's change the rigged tax code so the person of the year will actually pay taxes and stop freeloading off everyone else. Unfortunately for Elizabeth Warren, Elon Musk is pretty good at Twitter. He replied, and if you opened your eyes for two seconds, you would realize I pay more taxes than any American in history this year. He paid, which is, I guess, true.

He paid more in taxes now than any American in history. As a side note, Elizabeth Warren has a $12 million net worth and I saw that she paid no taxes on her equity holdings because she didn't sell anything, which is how the tax code works. And Elon then responded, don't spend it all at once. Oh, wait, you already did. And then after the warm up replies, Elon really got in the zone and like Steph Curry just started draining half court shots. He rationed her everything. He rationed her with $50,000 replies. Yeah, you remind me of when I was a kid and my friend's angry mom would just randomly yell at everyone for no reason.

Please don't call the manager on me, Senator Karen. Elon also responded to Bernie Sanders tweet today about climate change. Bernie Sanders said, future generations ask us, what do we do to stop the climate crisis? How will the answer? And Elon said, and so great tweets. But to the bigger picture, did these people even know what's going on in the world? No, they woke up on the wrong side of the tilt bed because in like a 24 hour period, he was the time person of the year, the FT person of the year, and they just went into super mega tilt mode.

And the Build Back Better Act got shelved and he taxed on 20 billion in sales. And then Build Back Better got shelved and well, I mean, you know, I think we talked about this last week, but that bill is dead now. I mean, they pushed it to March to basically avoid a downvote. Nothing's going to happen. David, you're right. We said last week, wouldn't it be hilarious if Elon said, kill it and then it got killed? I don't think that that's why the bill is dying. I think the real reason is that we now see a Fed posture, which is actually pretty reasonable, which actually says, oh wait, there's way too much money in the system as it is.

You know, the Fed two days ago basically said, we're going to see up to three rate hikes next year, probably 50 basis points each. So, you know, it's basically acknowledging that these last several years, we have printed way too much money and they're trying to fix the problem that they created. So, that's I think the real reason. And then the CBO comes out and basically says the Congressional Budget Office and says, this thing is a white albatross that's going to cost way more than you guys think it will. And so it puts Biden in this very awkward situation, which is, you know, on the one hand, he supports Powell and, you know, he supports institutions or has historically like the CBO, but he effectively then has to push back on both of them all in one fall swoop to try to ram this bill down people's throats and the support is, I think it's crumbling.

And so, you know, to say face, they basically said, well, we'll put a pin on this and we'll revisit it in March. But you guys know what's going to happen in the next three months, there's going to be some other crisis. Most folks will forget and it may just allow them to move on without having to actually deal with the potential of this thing getting defeated, which would just be, I think, cataclysmically bad for Democrats. You were on CNBC today. I thought you said something really important to where you said, hey, listen, maybe if we just calm things down for a year, we can, you know, get through, I'm not sure what the exact quote was, but maybe you could unpack that sentiment you had on CNBC today because I thought that was pretty important.

Yeah, well, I mean, I agree with what Chema said. This, I mean, this, this BBB bill was particularly anachronistic once the 6.8%, you know, inflation print came out. In other words, we're in a hyperinflationary environment and here comes this bill that the CBO says if, you know, over 10 years would cost $5 trillion, that's the last thing we need is more money printing when, you know, we've got this inflationary fire out of control. So I think that is why the bill is being shelved, probably not to return. I think that the larger problem that we have in the markets is that there's a tremendous amount of uncertainty being created right now by Washington.

We've had tremendous uncertainty overspending, over taxes, over interest rates and the conversations that I'm having with friends who are investors in really every asset class, real estate, VC, crypto, the conversations are all the same. What's interest rates going to do? What's the macro picture going to be? I've never seen investors who should be focused on, hey, do I invest in this company or buy this building, whatever. Those aren't the conversations. It's all, everyone's a macro economist now. And so we're also distracted by this. And so now the Fed a couple of days ago finally gave us clarity.

I mean, what they basically said is they're going to accelerate the taper, they'll end quantitative easing at the end of Q1. And then we're basically going to get quarter point. Explain what that means to people who don't know what they've been purchasing and why. Yeah. I mean, quantitative easing is kind of a weird term. What it means is that the Fed has been going into the bond market and buying bonds. I think basically mortgage backed securities and treasuries. And they've been buying, I think about 90 billion a month. They're going to cut that back to 60 billion a month.

And that'll continue. Just to explain it a little bit more. When you do that, what you're doing is you're giving somebody that owns those bonds money. Okay. So the Fed prints money. The government basically, yeah. The government prints $100, takes that $100, steps into the market and takes something from you. In this case, it's a bond and gives you that freshly printed $100. What are you going to do? Well, you're probably going to go and spend that. You're going to buy other things. And that's the cycle of inflation that quantitative easing basically creates. And so when you talk about tapering, what that means is slowing down the money printing machine and slowing down you stepping in the market and buying assets with money that you've created out of thin air.

And it's up to other people to buy those assets. If other people see value in them, they can buy them. You then are forced to find the real market clearing price. Yeah. Those bonds are now on the Fed's balance sheet. And so there's a very interesting chart showing assets that are owned by the Fed. And it went up by something like $3 trillion during COVID. So that is the sort of monetary stimulus that's been pumped into the market over the last couple of years. Separately, we've had something like $6 or $7 trillion of just spending by the government.

So, you know, tremendous amount of... And so that $3 trillion is not thrown away. So we're clear. We're going to get interest on that. And people, some number will default, some of them will get paid back. It's a way of stimulating the economy. But we now know after the STEMI checks and all the stimulus we did during the pandemic, we don't need to put more fire or oxygen or kerosene on what we got going in this economy. Correct, David? Yeah. I mean, we should show that chart about how much the Fed's balance sheet has grown over the last couple of years.

But, you know, the argument I think would be the reason why they buy these assets is if they're buying bonds, it basically means that it keeps the yield down, right? Because if they weren't the ones buying them, someone else would have to buy these bonds to keep the government funded. And they might demand a higher interest rate, a higher yield on the bonds. So, this, by having the Fed come in and increase the demand for the government's debt, it means that the government can sell its debt more cheaply. So, when they stop doing that, I think you can expect that interest rates are going to need to rise in order to make our debt attractive to bond buyers.

The other thing, by the way, that the Fed did when they did that was it wasn't just government bonds that they were buying. They decided completely arbitrarily at one point to start buying certain corporate debt. So, they own like four debt, GM debt, United Airlines. Commercial paper, that's called, yeah. No, no, no. Well, not, I mean, commercial paper is sort of more very short term. Short term. But like, how do you make a decision to start buying corporate bonds? It's like buying corporate equities. Do you buy Google versus Facebook? Do you have a view? Who's the capital allocator making that decision? So, more importantly, who's setting the price? Who's setting the price? So, you know, these guys have been off the reservation for a long time.

I think it's fair to say that they were forced into action without a playbook in the middle of a once in a, you know, lifetime, once a century pandemic. They were not fair enough. And I think they actually did a pretty reasonable job. But we just kept the tap on for so long. Yeah. And now we're like dealing with this stuff, trying to figure out how do we actually compensate. So, the idea that we would add knowing all of this. So, it's one thing I think if Biden passed the bill five months ago, six months ago, because we didn't know any of this stuff.

But to do it now knowing that, I think that it's really hard. And I bet you that it's not just mansion on the Democrats that are having a little bit of heartburn and second thoughts. It's probably more because I suspect that they could have forced his hand really if it was just up to him. But I suspect there are other Democrats who are now teetering on the fence thinking, I don't want my legacy to be tied to this when we're printing six, seven, eight percent inflation for me to basically keep the money printing machine on because it's insane.

This is like the Sopranos episode where he gave them like, he fronted the guy like 45 boxes to ZD and like you wake up and this guy can't pay the bill on the poker game. Like, can we even afford to pay this back at some point? Yeah, look, I think when March comes around and this bill supposedly going to be brought back off the table, we're going to be into the election season in 2022. And I don't know that Democrats are going to want to defend this. I think there is a view on the Democratic side that if they deliver enough goodies to their base, then that will help them win elections.

But I think what helps you win elections more than delivering goodies to your special interests is for the economy to be healthy. Yeah. And if they are sort of pressurizing this inflation situation, that is, I think, ultimately, that could backfire. I think that's going to be worse for the economy. Frankly, I think Manchin's doing Biden a favor because if the economy does grow by 4% next year, as the Fed is predicting it is, and if inflation comes down because you stop printing money the way they're doing, then I think the Democrats will do better in the election.

I think the economy is good. I mean, one of the reasons why they did so poorly in the off year election a month ago is that there's tremendous economic anxiety out there. People are seeing the inflation at the gas tank when they go to buy food. And if that continues, I think they're going to do very poorly next year. I want to just bring up this chart from Fred on total assets on the Fed balance sheet. I think it is really interesting to look at this thing because the Fed had about a trillion of assets until 2008.

Then we had the financial crisis and they doubled it. That's when the quantitative easing began. It went to 2 trillion. But then from roughly 2009 to about 2020 before COVID, somehow the balance sheet grew from 2 trillion to 4 trillion. And it had gone to 4.5 and they were starting to shed assets. So they were starting to get off drugs. But it was still from 2 to 4 trillion between this 2009 and 2020 period when supposedly we weren't in a crisis. So they've continued this quantitative easing. Then COVID hits and the amount grows from 4 to 7 trillion just in 2020.

And since then it's gone from 7 to a little under 9 trillion just in the last, you know... Well, they did 3 trillion. How do we get these things off our books ever? I mean, these are 20 year... Eventually they're going to sell them. Well, either they're going to have to sell the assets. Or they can do. Well, let's not like that. They basically are... The Fed is the one who bought the government debt. So they're buying, it's called a 10 year treasury. So yeah, I guess they could just wait till the bond gets paid off.

But I guess they could do that. But now that Fed has an incentive not to let the assets get toxic, right? So if the assets would get toxic, if interest rates go up too high, that drives bond prices down. And now all the assets in their books are worth a lot less. Yeah, this is like the point where we have to just call it and say, okay, you know what? Let's move on. Meaning in the sense that like we have to go to these root causes because the money is... More money is not going to fix what we're dealing with.

So I just put something in the group chat and I just want to get your guys's reaction to it. Because when I saw it, it blew my mind. There was a study, okay, that was just published a few days ago and it said the following thing. Children born during the pandemic have experienced a catastrophic drop in cognitive development of 22 IQ points. Yeah, I saw this. And when you look at it, the people that were the most affected were male children and children of lower socioeconomic families. But everybody was affected. Yet you see the amount of money that we're spending already.

So adding more money to something is not going to make it better if what we're spending today is basically just getting flushed down the toilet. And these are the kinds of things that really matter. How do you allow an entire generation of kids to suffer? By the way, what is that show? That means that teachers actually are unbelievably important. So number one, they should get paid a lot more. Okay, let's just put it that way. And they should be more of them than smaller class sizes. Exactly. So if you have these completely screwed up incentives between the organizations, the unions that represent these teachers and then the parents who have completely different incentives, and they basically fight to never be in classroom and to not really teach, this is the measurable outcome.

Yeah. The IQ of our children. I mean, we are pushing. The verbal ability, their executive function, their scores are going down. How do they recover from that? It'll be a lot of tutoring. It'll be a lot of summer school. Yeah. Zoom is not going to do it. I don't think more fortnight in roadblocks fixes this problem. No, definitely not. And I feel terrible because as a parent, that was my solution. I was struggling with the zooms, like every other parent. And then in the evenings, I was just so burnt and just feeling so beside myself in the middle of the pandemic.

Whereas I had a no iPad rule for my kids, I broke down. Yep. Everybody did. I mean, it's like you're home with your kids all day long. It's not how it's supposed to work. But so the point is like, this is where the government should step in and actually say, okay, here, let me take leadership on this topic. Right. And talk to the unions, fix whatever needs to be fixed, amp up the money into charter schools, do whatever you need to do. But please fix the problem. But randomly spending money to try to buy votes.

I think people see through that. It just doesn't work. And related to that Omnicron is spreading like crazy. New York City has an outbreak. Omnicron. Omnicron. Omnicron. There is no N. Omnicron. Omnicron. Omnicron. Omnicron. Yes. I'll learn how to pronounce it when it's gone. Omnicron. Omnicron. Is spreading like crazy in New York City and in the UK, amongst other places, the NBA and the NFL are seeing surges. I've had a ton of people I know test positive this week. You guys had that? Family, friends? Crazy. No. No. It's insane how many people are, I know so many people that's about it.

New York City? He's... Yeah. And a lot of people that don't have any symptoms. So here's the chart of cases, cases spiking, but hospitalizations and deaths are flat or going down in places where these outbreaks are occurring. The UK charts are even starker. There's a lot of anecdotal evidence. Everybody on TikTok and Instagram and Twitter, young people in New York who went to Santa Con are saying they all got it. But if you look at this chart... Sorry, but what is Santa Con? Santa Con is the worst holiday of the year. It's a time when a bunch of young people dress as Santa Claus and get drunk and you have 10,000 people.

It's a bar crawl. It's a bar crawl. This is like Santa? Like sexy Santa? Do you see this? You see how Monty's wearing his Santa outfit? Oh, Monty's. That's what goes on. Everyone wears their little Santa outfit and they go bar crawling. So it's not sexy Santa? Well, actually I have a story about that. I was... San Francisco in the first window. You were sexy Santa? No. I literally took my daughters out for pizza, Tony's in North Beach and I got my three daughters and there's all these people walking around like, look at it. It's Santa Claus.

Like a lot of them. And so there's a thousand Santa Claus descend on North Beach. And I turn around and I kid you not. There are two old guys. I'm talking 70 years old and they're wearing a baseball... Like a Santa hat, Santa boots and nothing in between. Literally buck naked in on the street. So yeah. Bro, you're so... You're so demented. Okay. You're like this like anky purve. Like every time I get those text messages, I don't know what to think. Did you guys click on the Twitter link with Jason? I was like, guys, search for the Folsom Street Fair on Twitter.

I can't unsee what I saw. I was like, why is Folsom Street trending? I was like, I thought there was a terrorist attack. Bro, that was so brutal. You can't send that shit around. It's so brutal. I was like, don't click on Folsom. I was like, oh, this is a Twitter link. What is it about? Web 3.0? Not exactly. The Folsom Street Fair, I'm going to go ahead and say don't search for that. If you have kids around, it's a little bit intense. But anyway, the Santa Com was on Saturday, December 11th. And so here we are four or five days later in this stuff hitting.

If that's true, it almost perfectly mirrors the original outbreak after St. Patty's Day in March 2020. And if you look on social media, all the city MD lines where people get tested are around the block. And 30 NBA players have entered the COVID protocol in the last two weeks. It's about 7% of the league. And we had a big question mark of would this be less, more contagious? It obviously is. Less deadly, it apparently is. Some studies show as much as 40 times more infectious than Delta. Highly contagious, extreme, very much airborne. It's going everywhere.

Like I said last time, if it does end up having low severity and low hospitalization rate and low death rate for vaccinated or vaccinated plus boosted populations, this could end up being a massive immunizing event, meaning like a lot of people will develop new antibodies and resistance. That could be a good thing. But it's certainly the case that this is not a one strain, one shot and done pandemic. This is an endemic circumstance. We're going to be in this for a while. The circumstances are one that may require an adaptation in terms of how we live and operate.

And especially as it relates to things that are so important, like keeping businesses open in schools, I think we're going to use recent memory to guide future decision making or at least politicians and lawmakers will and they'll say, hey, this is what we did last time this happened. And we just saw this in California where they're like, last time we told everyone, going to lockdown or wear masks indoors again and we're seeing that behavior again. Certainly it may have an impact in terms of the spread, but this is highly contagious and it's going to spread everywhere.

And I think there's just some adaptation that maybe is going to be needed here over the long run. There's no end, there's no end in sight. There's no end in sight, but it is less deadly and so it could be mass immunizing and that has led people to think of this herd immunity potentially if there's not another variant. SACs, if the NBA and the NFL are learning to live with COVID and obviously when we were in Miami, there's no COVID and Austin, there's no COVID. Is everybody now just go because it seems like the politicians now, whether it's in Europe, we're seeing the protests and I think we'll see them here in the United States if this keeps up.

Australia obviously having protests as well. The public has decided, I think, we're willing to have a thousand people die a day or a certain number of people die today to get back to normal. So what do you think the end game here is going into 2022? I'll make a prediction for 2022. Okay, I will predict that even the blue areas of the country are going to have fatigue with all these COVID restrictions. And so even the blue state governors who are addicted to their state of emergencies and their restrictions and lockdowns and closures and mask mandates, even they are going to have to give them up in 2022 because the country is sick and tired of this.

Peter Pham had a really good tweet to see the other day, maybe you guys can dig it up, where he had a friend visit him from Texas and they've been living normally there since like July of 2020, roughly kids in school. Occasionally, someone gets sick, but they've been living normally. Okay, it's a mangyle problem. And he couldn't believe, Peter's friend could not believe how they're living in LA, where still everyone's living in fear. We now have a new one month indoor mask mandate thanks to Governor Newsom who still is ruling the state under state of emergency.

What good is that going to do? So I think that some of these blue areas, people are so petrified still of the virus. And I think it's just because of they're the ones who have been ingesting all this fear porn coming from the media. And but I think it's going to break. I think the finally this hysteria and panic will break, it'll crest over the blue parts of the country in 2022. They're already back to normal in the red parts. And especially on McCron, you can't stop this. Okay, I think that's the salient point here.

Nothing works. You're all going to get it. Look, the little stupid vax card that you have to show everywhere to get like popcorn at a movie theater like in San Francisco doesn't do anything because vaccinated people can spread it too. So that doesn't do anything. And the mask mandate doesn't do anything. You know, and so none of this stuff does anything except getting a vaccine reduces the severity of the illness. And losing weight, Sacks. And losing weight. And we can't have that conversation. Those consequences are mainly on the person who decides to do it. What we have to say is we just have to tell everybody, you know, listen, lose weight, get in shape, eat healthy, get vaccinated, get back to life.

That's it. That's the best you can do. I believe everybody's going to get it. We're starting to see like a real divergence in American life where, and I think Omicron's, if we have lockdowns under Omicron and really the big issue is school closures. If we go back to school closures in blue states and have more of the learning loss that Chamath was talking about, and I bet we do. Because in red states, they're still out there learning normally and they're dealing with it just like they deal with the outbreak of a flu season or cold season, but they, you know, they're just managing it.

We're going to be living in two different Americas. But I don't believe this is sustainable. I think eventually these governors who are holding onto their power and their restrictions are going to lose in 2022. The ones who haven't given it up are going to basically fall to a red wave in November 22. Noosa might be the only one left standing. Any schools closed? I see everybody's canceling their Christmas parties. JPMorgan canceled that. We're close. We're close. Every Christmas party's been getting canceled. And I wonder if schools, I mean, teachers unions, they got to be having a meeting right now.

The teachers unions don't even acknowledge that learning loss exists. I mean, this is why I decided to homeschool for the year of the pandemic and I kept my homeschool teacher for, you know, a couple of hours a day and my kids have done wonderfully and it's great to have the ability to afford to be able to do that, but not everybody can have an afterschool tutor. Let me up level this for a second. Okay, so maybe I'm spilling the beans on one of my predictions I'll make at the predictions episode we do. But first we had COVID, okay? Then we had the overreaction to COVID, both politically and economically.

Economically we pumped 10 trillion plus of spending and monetary and QE and all this sort of stuff. Basically we had these restrictions, school closures, lockdowns, mandates, okay? I think we're about to enter a new phase, which is the correction to the overreaction. And I think we're already in the correction. So the market's been correcting, growth stock's been correcting for the last five or six weeks. I now think that there was a bit of a political correction with Yonkin winning in Virginia. Remember that state swung 10 points relative to a year ago. And I think you'll see a further correction both politically and economically in 2022.

So we may not be completely past COVID, but I think we are going to be past this sort of overreaction to COVID. What do you guys think about succession? Oh no, I haven't seen it. I haven't seen it. Oh dear. Don't say anything. Jeremy Strong. Jeremy Strong. Let's talk about the Jeremy Strong thing. Jeremy Strong. Okay, Jeremy Strong is a weirdo according to a New Yorker profile and there's been a huge response to it. This profile came out. This is Kendall Roy on succession. Kendall Roy, who is woke and dumb and ineffective as an executive.

And obviously the show is modeled after Rupert Murdoch and Fox and the kids there who are not dopey actually. In the article it hinted that most of the succession's coworkers dislike him due to his intensity and method acting rituals. He won't rehearse with anybody. He's in character all the time like Daniel Day Lewis. He won't get makeup whenever anybody else does because he doesn't want to reduce the energy and the build up. The article notes there is a fine line that Strong walks between being a legendary method actor and just a complete, the awesome networker.

Wait, can I tell you why this story was interesting to me and why I sent those two guys? Go ahead. Yeah. Okay, so here's a guy who in many ways is a virtuoso and the reason, I mean, he's a really good actor because I despise Kendall Roy on that show. And I was wondering like, is this guy just a terrible actor or is he such a good actor that I hate them? Yes. I hate him. And that's why I was attracted to this article and in it or after it. So basically what happens is he's a virtuoso.

So just I'll come back to it in a second. These people at the New Yorker who I guess are just jealous or want to write click bait try to destroy this guy. But what they didn't factor is that when they published this article, all these other actors would come to his defense and do it really publicly. Yes. Anne Hathaway, Jessica Chastain, Aaron Sorkin wrote a letter. Exactly that Jessica Chastain published to Twitter because Aaron Sorkin doesn't have access to social media by design. And in all of it, they said, this is the most incredible person we've seen.

Aaron Sorkin says this guy is as good as Dustin Hoffman, which is like that's as good as it gets. So why was it interesting to me? You have these people who are grinding and trying to perfect their craft, be a virtuoso. You talked about Steph Curry grinding, try to perfect his craft, just a little Steph Curry story as a tangent. He brought in this team where they basically started to map out all of the circumferences of the net and he practiced this summer literally trying to get it perfectly in to create this very specific kind of swoosh.

And he just kept shooting and shooting and shooting and shooting, not all the time, but every day for some number of shots, trying to get the ball perfectly into the basket. That is a level of perfectionism and that's being a virtuoso that none of us can really appreciate. But you see the output and we all love it. He's already the goat and he's trying to outdo himself. Here's a different guy in a completely different theater, in this case acting, trying to also be really legendary and putting himself through all kinds of stuff and still not lose himself in it.

So much so that all of these other people are really appreciate how amazing he is. And to me, what I don't like is that then these critics who don't do anything, who've never accomplished anything at all in their lives, feel so triggered that they have to judge him. So it's something to not have that skill. I'll never be as good of an actor as Jeremy Strong. I'll never be as good of a basketball player as Steph. But I don't hate these people for that. I'm so happy that people like this exist. But there's a strain of people that exist.

And then who also have a platform. Yeah, I was about to connect the dots for you. Look at how the politicians feel the same way about private market. Media, politicians, social media. Who decide to try to destroy people? So instead, what these people do is they take a shortcut. They're the critics. They're not in the arena. Okay. The folks in the arena are booking wins and losses constantly. You have this strain of impotent critic that doesn't actually know how to do for themselves. And they somehow have a platform. And then what they end up doing is cutting corners and then some subset of those start to cheat.

Q David. Yeah, this is a story that the Congress back in 2012 passed a bill called the Stock Act to prohibit members of Congress from trading on their insider knowledge based on legislative actions they're about to take. And it's been widely flouted by dozens of representatives and senators. And the problem is there's no punishment. It's something like a $200 fine or something like that that gets waived in most of these cases. So it's completely hypocritical because these politicians like Senator Caron, they're constantly demonizing and attacking other people to make themselves look better. And then here they are.

They've got dirty hands. And they asked Pelosi. They set up Pelosi. Well, don't you think that members of Congress should be prohibited from trading stocks, right? Because their actions have such a huge consequence on them. And Pelosi said, no, it's a free market. It's a free market. We should be free to do that. It's like, huh, I don't remember that being a defense every time you've wanted to regulate some industry that they didn't think about. Also, doesn't the president have to divest when they take the presidential office? Isn't that a thing? Divest or they put their assets in a blind trust.

Yeah, so they're blind. So why would senators, Congress, people be any different than the president? It's absurd that elected officials should be able to engage in insider trading. It makes no sense. The Fed actually had this issue as well. Two folks on the Federal Reserve Board resigned. And then Powell issued a whole bunch of, I think, new laws or regulations inside the Fed to try to fix it. And the same issue occurs with federal judges. And there are federal judges that are consistently trading in the equities of the companies that are in front of them.

And so how can you adjudicate a case? There is one judge that had 130 plus conflicts, trading conflicts, 130 plus, and he is the one that's there where AT&T or Facebook or Google has an issue. I mean, how can you actually assume that these folks are being impartial if that's the case? And there are no consequences for this. And yet, if you're, again, going back to where we started, somebody in the arena trying to do something, you just got to think to yourself, like, you have critics that are bashing you, you have folks that are basically flouting the law because they can, and then you put these two together and it's like, this is so, it's kind of depressing, to be honest with you.

You start to lose a little bit of faith in this. Let's be honest. I mean, these politicians are grifters. That's it. And full stop. I mean, they're just grifting. And I mean, except for, apparently, except for Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren, they should just buy the companies they hate. Why aren't they buying Amazon and Tesla? They would be total proponents of Jeff Bezos and Elon Musk if they did. Yeah, and Faraday Stowar and I've seen her tweet that she supports the banning of the insider trading by congressional representatives, but I don't exactly see her fighting for it.

You know, as hard as she's denouncing people like Elon. So look, I mean, it's characteristic of elected officials that they, what is it, they see the splinter in somebody else's eye, but not the log in their own or something like that. Isn't that the expression? But, you know, who's taking advantage of this issue is Blake Masters, who's running for the Senate in Arizona, just tweeted about that this would be the first thing he would fix if he gets elected, which is to ban insider trading by elected officials. And I think it's remarkable that, you know, politicians as shrewd as Nancy Pelosi are deceitig this issue to Republicans.

I mean, I don't know why Republicans wouldn't make this a major plank of their platform for 2022. Nancy Pelosi is I think the third or fourth richest person in Congress. Her husband is a very sophisticated private equity investor. There are these meme stocks that follow Nancy Pelosi's stock trading account or pretend to that were, you know, recently, by the way, banned by Twitter, right? Yeah. That was weird. Yeah. Protecting her. Protecting her effectively. So, you know, she has an incentive to not her seat of power is not necessarily the salary that she earns by being house leader, but it's by translating that in a bunch of different ways.

And one way, apparently, it turns out is being an active equity investor in the market. It's unbelievable that's allowed. I don't know how this isn't just like an A plus fantastic issue for Republicans. They should make it an absolute plank of their platform. Well, here we go. Florida Republican Brian Mast was late in disclosing purchase of up to 100,000 in stock at an aerospace company, which had just testified before our committee, he said. The Republican Rand Paul was 16 months late disclosing that he bought his wife bought stock in a pharma company that manufactures an anti viral COVID 19 treatment.

Right. Nevada Democrat Susie Lee failed to probably disclose more than 200 trades. Yeah. Just as much as 3 million. I mean, this is just clear. The violations have been on both sides of the aisle. Yes. I'm not at all trying to say that Republicans are better on this than Democrats. However, this is good. I am not bipartisan cooperation. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. This is the political class in Washington. No, public records. Engagement behavior. But the difference is this, which is that Pelosi, the only leader of a party, I've heard defend this as Pelosi. And I think this is a fantastic issue for outsider candidates really on both sides to run on.

This is also something that Biden can take because Biden has never tried to do this stuff. Oh my God. Biden's got so many shady dealings and conflicts. Why are you talking about his kid selling paintings to China? There's a lot of rich Bidens out there. Apparently he's got a rich brother. He's got a, you know, paid a lot of money. No, maybe that's true. But Joe Biden has been really down the middle. Come on, be fair. Hunter is brilliant. I mean, he's selling paintings. Yeah. But why are they buying Hunter Biden paintings for five hundred thousand dollars? Well, I mean, he's a great artist.

I mean, why do people buy? I don't know if you saw Melania's coming out with NFTs today. So she's Melania's everybody's securing the bag now. I mean, if, and by the way, the presidential grift is always the best just as a case in a good point, Trump's SPAC is worth over two billion and Buzzfeed, which makes 360 million a year and I think has a hundred, two million cash is more like six hundred. He's not an office. That's misstated, Jason. Trump's SPAC, his shares that he's going to be receiving are worth close to 20 billion.

What? 20 billion. But he's not in office anymore. So I'm not sure. The shares that he's going to receive. Oh, stock is, yeah. Well, your counting is the market cap of the cash and trust, the value of the shares that are already public in the stock. The Trump, the value of the Trump entity is going to be closer to 20 billion. Oh, is that right? Wow. That's even crazier with no revenue. There's four million people. Well, the SEC apparently the DOJ sent a bunch of inquiries on this asking for background on the transaction because there's no business.

There's no contracts. There's no employees. It's just a whole. But by the way, idea, just to make sure that everybody understands this is, this is a bipartisan thing as well. The ultimate bag secures, the Obama's got, I think, 50 million plus each for their book deals and they got supposedly high eight figures like 50, 60, 70, 80 million dollars from Netflix. Sorry, hold on a second. Hold on a second. When you said, when you call them bag secures, I was really triggered there for a second. So am I supposed to take that offensively that you're saying Michelle Obama and Barack Obama secured the bag? Secured the bag is a term for getting the money.

The Obama's are doing it. Okay. The Trumps are doing it. It's a thing. Secure the bag. But Jason, we're not against everybody not being able to make money. The issue is trading on your office in a way that where you are trading on your insider information that your office has given you. Sure, but I mean, here or if you're selling influence, if you sell a book, if you sell a book when you're out of office, is that really a problem? Is that the same thing? No, I wanted to point out the Netflix one. What was Netflix's existential crisis for the eight years Obama was in office? Anybody remember? Nobody remembers? Net neutrality.

Nobody cares. Could they get, would they have to pay Verizon? What was the Obama's position on net neutrality? They were for net neutrality. Netflix stock went up 40, 50X under Obama. It could all be a coincidence. I'm just saying. What the fuck? So you're saying it's like, you're saying it's a disguised lobbying payment to Obama. I think it's like, are you serious? I think it's like, listen, the Clintons were doing speaking gifts for Goldman Sachs and half a million dollars. This is kind of my cue to go to dinner now. Okay, here's the MRA. The main way that Winston Churchill supported himself was writing books.

I think it's okay for politicians to write books because ultimately the public buys them and that's how they make money. What about when the book is 50 million and the normal price would be 10? That's the problem. Well, I mean, I guess you might have a point. If the advance was so in excess of the expected sales that it raises a question of what the ring motive is for the payment. But is that what happened? Nobody gets paid a 50 million dollar advance. Nobody gets an eight figure deal. But we've never made a documentary before.

I mean, if this book sold 5 million copies, it still wouldn't be worth it. Let's move on to mRNA so we keep our free bird factor high. I'm so ready to go to dinner. Rick Thompson gave me a wonderful bottle of wine, by the way. I'm going to go drink it tonight. I'm so super tilted that you're like, it's like, I mean, I criticize the Obamas. Yeah, I can't deal with it. You can't deal with it. It's a no fly zone for you. I'm super tilted. I mean, this is worse than sweater Karen. What about the Clintons? Can I go after their 500 days speaking gigs for moments, Axe? That's okay.

Yeah, okay, fine. Just don't bless the Obamas. But I mean, Jason, are you doing exactly what Senator Karen did to Elon, which is by virtue of the fact that they're making money that you are now imputing evil murders to it? No, it's just a disproportionate to what they should get by your assessment. Their assessment's the same about Elon. I pay a lot of money for Michelle Obama to do much of any. I think she's just a total bias. He's figured out for somebody who's never made a film on for Netflix. I don't think it makes sense.

You said the same thing about Rivian. I don't know, man. You're projecting a little bit. I totally agree. If this is on the second floor, I jump out the window right now. Yeah, you let winners be winners, J.K. I think we should differentiate between insider trading, bad and should not be allowed, influence peddling, bad should not be allowed, and somebody out of office making money. Monetize their influence? Yeah. No, no, no, not monetize their influence. And if they did that, that's a problem. Getting paid for services is fine. Getting paid to sell tickets or books, that's if that's what it is, that's fine.

It's totally disproportionate to the reality. Let's put it up. Okay, fine, fine. Put it up. Put it up. Put it up. Put it up. Put it up. I agree with that. I would vote Obama in for a third term. Didn't you get paid a $50,000 speaking fee recently to speak at a conference? Yes, he did. Overpaid. Overpaid. Overpaid. Overpaid. You're worth $8,000. Overpaid. You're worth like $2,500. I just got paid 15 grand to do a 15 minute speaking. Who are you trying to influence? Who are they paying you to influence, J.K.? I mean, honestly, J.K.

I have no influence. Jason, you're like 30% less than a high end escort. Okay, no offense. Oh, man, that's $600. I don't know. So there's a high end influence. What's 30% more than 50? You're saying it's like 80 grand? I don't know. It's 60, 70 grand. I didn't realize that. All right. Talk to us about the mRNA news for cancer, Freeber. That came out this past week. So I think the article that you guys sent around was one related to an oncology treatment that uses mRNA tech. But I think what I thought would be interesting to talk about for a second is just zooming out on mRNA technology as a whole, which has been theorized for the potential of it's been talked about for 50 years.

If we talk about real quick what RNA is, remember your DNA, your genetic code defines the printing of proteins in your cells. And so every three letters of DNA is an amino acid, a bunch of amino acids in a row, form a protein, and that protein has some function in your body. The way that the DNA gets translated into protein is through these mRNA snippets. So a little snippet of RNA is a copy of DNA which floats over from the DNA strand and it floats into what's called the ribosome and the ribosome is the protein printer in the cell.

And there's lots of ribosomes and there's lots of RNA floating around all the time and it's being copied over. So some chemical triggers the expression of that gene, of that sequence of DNA into RNA that then turns into protein. And so a chemical induces the protein. Then the protein does something interesting and the protein has a function in your body. And some of those proteins in human body can do bad things and some of them can do good things. And so the idea has always been that we can actually use proteins as a way to modulate our health and modulate disease.

For example, creating a protein that can attach to cancer cells and signal immune cells to come and kill those cancer cells as an example. And some people have genetic problems where their DNA prints the wrong protein and then that protein is malformed or causes some harm to your health. And so the idea for RNA technology has always been that instead of having DNA be the source of truth for the proteins that get expressed in your body, can we stick RNA directly into the cells and use that RNA to trigger the production of proteins that can do specific things in your body.

And remember, the biggest segment of the pharma market or a huge segment of the pharma market is what's called biologic drugs, which are largely antibodies, which are a type of protein that have some specific function. But very many of these proteins are hard to get into the body and get them into the right place and get them to do the things we want them to do. So it would be a lot easier if we could get RNA into the right cells to get those cells to make the right protein to do that thing that we want them to do.

So everything from cancer treatment to genetic diseases, and there's RNA interference and there's RNA or what are called oligonucleotides that can be used to block specific bad proteins from being produced in yourselves, or it's kind of another course of treatment. So making proteins that we think are therapeutic and blocking the production of bad proteins are kind of the mainstay of this idea behind RNA technology. And Moderna was started to pursue this effort out of flagship pioneering, which is an incubation shop in Boston. And they really kind of struggled for years to find the right footing of what's the right business model and the right product.

And the FDA kind of struggled with approving this stuff. And then boom, COVID hit. And when COVID hit, it was like, holy crap, let's accelerate this RNA technology, use it for vaccines, which had been in development for years. And the protein that's being produced is the same protein you find on the SARS CoV2 virus, which triggers an immune response and builds up your immunity to that virus. And now the floodgates are open. And this is incredible because the frontiers in RNA over the next decade could change the course of how we treat disease and change the course of outcomes for many diseases from genetic diseases all the way through to cancers.

And so we're starting to see those floodgates open. I think there's now a handful of these, you know, RNA interference products that have been approved by the FDA. And we're now starting to see many more of these cancer and immunotherapy drugs start to get approved as RNA therapies. But it really, I think, was lit by the breakthrough with COVID and everyone kind of seeing the benefit of this and the lack of side effects. And we've now got, I think, a validation in the market and acceptance for consumers that this technology could transform the industry in the same way that Genentech transformed the pharma industry with biologic drugs in the 80s and 90s.

So it's super exciting. And you know, we can do updates regularly on our show if you guys want to talk about more of the cool stuff that's coming out. But man, this is going to transform how medicine is delivered and the potential of things that we can kind of trade. Let me ask you a question. If we looked at the total number of deaths from COVID and then the potential deaths avoided or early deaths or more life days added, however you want to do it, from mRNA and the impact on cancer over the next, say, 30 or 40 years.

In other words, the impact it would have on the people living today who live through COVID, do you think net net will see that the prevention of cancers through this new technology could actually make, you know, basically the silver lining to what happened during COVID? It's a good question. Let me give you the counterpoint. In the late 90s, there was a gene editing clinical trial that took place and they tried to, and a patient and they delivered the gene editing technology via virus. And so the virus goes in, it spreads around and it has this molecule that would edit the gene and it was for genetic disease.

And a patient that they gave it to a young guy got this virus and he actually died from it and they shut down all clinical trials for years and it was like, boom, that's the end. So there are a lot of scientists, a lot of doctors have argued for years that that particular case caused so many lives to be lost because we lost years of progress in being able to run clinical trials during that time and get drugs to market that could treat people. And you're right, maybe the opposite has happened here, that while these clinical trials may have taken years and years and years to get through in a normal setting, perhaps the pandemic was the accelerant we needed to get more of these to market faster and millions of people whose lives would have been lost or would be lost otherwise to cancer and other genetic diseases and so on over the years to come will be saved because these therapies will get to market faster.

And so, yeah, it's a great point and maybe I don't know what the calculus is between the lives lost in a pandemic versus the lives gained via these treatments coming to market faster but it's certainly a good way to think about it. The way to look at it, we can look at the days of life lost, right? If we actually could actually predict how long someone's going to live and the, you know, extension of life, I think we can come out of this ahead. Certainly on our docket, Lyndon Breed calls for better policing in San Francisco after this insane surge in crime.

Here's the video. And it's time that the reign of criminals who are destroying our city, it is time for it to come to an end. And it comes to an end when we take the steps to be more aggressive with law enforcement, more aggressive with the changes in our policies and less tolerant of all the bullshit that has destroyed our city. We are going to turn this around. This is a city that has a population of less than one million people with an over $12 billion budget. The residents of this city have been extremely generous in providing us with the resources we need to make a difference.

And now the priorities we need to make must be to protect them, must be to turn things around in their neighborhoods. When you are in a room full of people, I would say probably anywhere between 90 and 95% of folks could raise their hand and say that either their car has been broken into or they've been a victim in some capacity or another. That is not okay. That is not acceptable. For example, Saks, I thought crime was down and that everything was great and that we were going to defund the police. What is happening here? What's the big turnaround? Well, it's exactly what I was saying that, first of all, I loved it.

I love what she said. It's exactly what I've been saying for the last year and it's really great to hear her say the same types of things. I started this campaign back in January after New Year's Eve, you had those two women get killed by a repeat offender who was released by Chase the Boudin and then as I dug into it, I saw that he was doing this all the time as part of his agenda of decarceration. A year later, like we've talked about throughout this whole time, the city has totally degenerated into some sort of dystopian Gotham like city.

This did feel like the beginning of a Batman movie. It was a strong statement. I thought it was great. This is just the beginning of what needs to be done. I predict that London breed is going to eventually butt heads with Chase the Boudin. There is no way that he will support this agenda of fixing the city. She wants to increase the police presence. Like you said, she is going to refund the police, not defund the police. Chase the Boudin is, I mean, the only people he's passionate about prosecuting are police officers. Yeah. So, we have a huge problem that the police department is actually, we have too few of them.

We have to take that staff. We would take that job. It's not just because of the budget. It's also because they're demoralized and they've got this prosecutor. By the way, there was a case just recently where a repeat offender bashed a vodka ball over the head of a cop and Chase just announced that he's getting sentimental health diversion instead of being prosecuted. I want to post this. What? You can attack a cop and not go to jail in the city of San Francisco. Yes. This is why the cops are demoralized. So in order for London Breed to fix the problem, she is going, and I think she's on the right track here.

He's got to go. So here's my prediction. On February 15th, they are having the recall election for the education board. And I predict that that board, at least two of the three are going to be recalled. The parents are sick and tired of it. They are going to be out. I think that's going to embolden London Breed to then support the recall of Chase the Boudin in the June election. And I think between that... As she gets to pick his replacement when it comes to that. Yes, exactly. So that's what she's doing. She basically flipped.

She was quiet up until this point. The progressive left are slowly eating themselves. Yeah. I mean, I think this is self preservation, right, Chamath? I mean, if she didn't make a change here, she's going to be out of office too. She'll get recalled. It's not self preservation. They're realizing that these policies don't work. All absolutism didn't work on the left or the right. These guys have tried in a small scale to do what a certain fraction of the Democratic Party has been trying to do at a national level. It doesn't work. Overspending, underpolicing, undereducating, it doesn't do anything.

I think there's going to be a schism. I think it started after the Yonkin victory in Virginia. And I think it's going to accelerate for the next year, and especially after the red wave in November 2022, there's going to be a schism between liberal pragmatists and these extreme radical progressives. I think London Breed represents, she's obviously very liberal, but I think she's pragmatic. I think she wants to find solutions that work. Whereas Chesa Boudin is a radical ideologue who will never change no matter how much evidence is presented to him that policies don't work in our backfiring.

I think there's a simple formula. The person who gets you into the mess is likely not the right person to get you out of the mess. She talks about San Francisco having a $12 billion dollar year budget. Can you guys imagine if she was the CEO of a tech company that had $12 billion a year in OPEX and she ran the business into the ground, would the board say, go ahead, turn it around? Absolutely not. The board would step in, and in this case, the board is the citizens of San Francisco, and they would say, let's find the right person to turn this thing around.

And while she stood up and said the right things, and maybe it would echo, and I think even if it echoes within David Sacks's heart, I'm sure it's echoing in a lot of hearts of more liberal San Franciscans. But I think that the apathy, being asleep at the wheel, and allowing the disorganization across the departments within that city is ultimately her responsibility. And I don't think that any amount of verbiage or action she might take at this point justifies the damage she has caused while being the leader of that city. And by the way, I think you'll see, to Sacks's point earlier, I think you'll see the same response across the nation where folks feel like the leaders that got them into the mess that they're in locally, in cities and elsewhere around this country, are going to vote those folks out of office because they want to change.

And it's the same reason we saw folks vote Trump into office, and the same reason we saw folks vote Trump out of office. The more you want to see a change, the more you're going to make a change with your political electorate. So, right. Friedberg is so, so right. There is a phenomenal Twitter account. His name is Rob Henderson, and he's like a PhD student right now. I think he's in Europe on scholarship. This guy has an incredible background, which you can talk about later. But Rob Henderson has this thing, which I love, which is that a lot of this stuff is born out of what he calls luxury beliefs, right? Like defunding the police is a luxury belief.

If you're like this rich middle class cloistered person that can sit behind a gate, have armed security, yada, yada, yada, because you're not living in the ghetto where the byproducts of defunding the police are born out or decarceration are born out. Or if you send your kid to a private school, you can completely be for all these crazy radical ideas like defunding advanced placement, defunding the gifted program. Because if your kid's smart, you'll just pay for a tutor and you can do whatever you want. Those luxury beliefs exist more in the progressive left in such a small cohort of people than in any other political class that we have in America.

And when they get a hold of power, they've now had the right to show whether those luxury beliefs can actually work. The data says it doesn't. Let's go with competence. How about that? Like just keep people safe and make the education system. These luxury beliefs belong in sociology textbooks, in anthropological articles. They're better off in like where beatniks smoke pot and talk about it over a glass of wine. Clean up something. So look, I have no special desire to defend London breed. I'm sure there are many. I knew that. I'm sure there are many better people.

Are you wearing a London breed, brand sweater? Is that London breed? Tom Ford. Tom Ford. Oh, sorry. Tom Ford. Tom Ford. Tom Ford. Look, I'm sure there are better mayors. But just I think we have to sort of temper what you said based on the realities of politics in San Francisco, which are this. We actually have a weak mayor. The mayor can't do anything without the budget, right? Not the boat, the board of supervisors. And the soups are controlled right now by a bunch of crazies. White ghost. Basically, allies. Dean Preston and Matt Hanney and Hilary Roden who are allies of Chesa Boudin.

So London breed, I think, wants to do some good things. I think that she is more pragmatic than these ideologues. I think that she could have been more aggressive and more outspoken about standing up to them. Earlier. Earlier. And I think she is now doing the right thing in terms of the speech she just gave, basically calling for refunding the police and we're sick of the bullshit and we're going to take action. Those are the right things to be saying right now. She did the right thing in terms of supporting the recall of the school board.

And what I'm saying is let's give her a chance to see if she does come out. 100% of the recall of Chesa Boudin because I think that's where it's headed. And if she gets on board with that, and she shows she's pragmatic, she may actually survive. You said we do a fundraiser. If she gets out, it's happening all around the country, right? We saw Bill de Blasio, who was the first real progressive leftist elected to a major city. He completely ran New York City into the ground. Now Eric Adams is going to go clean it up, right? We had Glenn Yonkin, who basically ran a centrist campaign takeover Virginia.

It's over. It's over, Johnny. Let's call it. It's over centrism, pragmatism. Enough of these extreme polar opposites. Okay. Right. Let's go to Proud Boys, go and make love to each other in some deserted island. It's over. It's done. That's the funniest thing I heard. Somebody said to me, like Proud Boys and what's the other group? Oathkeepers or something? This woman who's gay, she's like, oh, you know, it was Rachel Maddow. She's like, I think these are like gay activist groups, aren't they? Like Proud Boys? It sounds like a gay activist group. I think we're seeing the correction of the overreaction, the pandemic cause, what Neil Ferguson calls pandemic politics, that the pandemic bred a strain of radical politics that we saw all over the country.

I think the country is going to come out of that. Did you see these idiots go to Cheesecake Factory and do a sit in without their masks on? That's their form of protest. It's like, we're going to go into the Cheesecake Factory. Who are you talking about? It was a Cheesecake Factory protest and now it's going national with people who are anti mask, anti vax. They don't want to have to show their cards or wear a mask when they walk to their seats. So they're literally doing sit ins at Cheesecake Factory. I was like, I would protest going to a Cheesecake Factory.

I'm not going to protest in a Cheesecake Factory. Some people aren't on a diet like you, J. Count. They enjoy Cheesecake. Well, where are you at? What's the number? Sacks, just give us the number. What's your weight? I'm around 170. I'm 174. I'm coming right up behind you. You hear the steps? You hear the sacks? I'm going to tell you, bro, I love your sweater. I'm going to drive to the city, come to the mausoleum and make love to you with that sweater. Oh my God. All right, everybody, we'll see you next week on the All In podcast.

Love you besties. Love you sacks. Love you sacks. Back at you. We'll let your winners ride. Rain Man, David Sacks. We open source it to the fans and they've just gone crazy with it. We're going to get it. We're going to get it. We're going to get it. We're going to get it. We're going to get it. We're going to get it. We're going to get it. We're going to get it. I'm going to tell you, make love to your fans and they've just gone crazy with it. Love you besties. I'm the queen of Kinoa.

I'm going all in. Winners ride. What, what, your winners ride. My winners ride. Besties are gone. That is my dog taking an omission of drive. Wait a second. Winner to drive. Oh man. My avidasher will meet me at once. He should all just get a room and just have one big huge orgy because they're all disused. It's like this sexual tension that they just need to release somehow. You're a bee. Beep, beep. What? You're a bee. Beep. What? You're a bee. We need to get merchies on back. I'm doing all this. I'm doing all this.




